MS Analytics Class 2021: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, I went to Austin for this last weekend was the first time in many months normally go there.
Capstone Coach 1: Just you know hang out in the restaurants, what have you, I was surprised that how many people how many the restaurants were closed and the hotels and everything it was just.
Capstone Coach 1: sort of a different different atmosphere than right around local.
Capstone Coach 1: But I understand, most of the students on campus.
Capstone Coach 1: somebody's talking.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, we're going to get started here the.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to share my screen.
Capstone Coach 1: Try to okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right.
MS Analytics Class 2021: Let me know if it doesn't work that the Jones.
Capstone Coach 1: You can all do that.
Capstone Coach 1: You think by now i'd like to get the hang of this right.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, do you do you see my screen anyone.
Swanson J, Charles: Yes, sir.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, we did rice, we see it.
Capstone Coach 1: Good okay good.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, I guess i'll just hide that for my.
Capstone Coach 1: Probably hide this that's.
Capstone Coach 1: Right okay so as usual we're going to start with, by going to the campus see if I can find that here.
Capstone Coach 1: Here it is.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: OK.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you'll go to the week number 11 on e campus.
Capstone Coach 1: The last day of March.
Capstone Coach 1: And there's not a lot there but it's pretty.
Capstone Coach 1: involved we're going to be talking about this tonight so tonight we're talking about neural networks, and in particular we're talking about.
Capstone Coach 1: How to arrange your networks or how to use them to process images and some of you may have seen this before and it will be looking after a couple of different new types of neural networks, the neural networks that we've been looking at in psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: have been used to basically.
Capstone Coach 1: Do forecasting and classification, for you know structured models and where you have a target that you're trying to forecast.
Capstone Coach 1: Those are called nlp neural networks that's the the word that's commonly used now I see psychic learn uses nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: and tense or charisse uses nlp as their jargon it stands for multi layer precept on network.
Capstone Coach 1: There are two other major categories of networks and we'll talk about those here in just a minute so i'm going to start by opening up this PDF file, which is the slides for tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: And we're going to go through that and then, as we get down through that we're going to open up these Python files that you see here, these are code files and we'll be working through that.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, making some alterations to see how they perform, and this sort of thing, so if you could get a chance, please download these code files, the dot P, why files or you may also want to download the other two as well.
Capstone Coach 1: Right and so.
Capstone Coach 1: We get this going.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, there we go.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So some of some of these slides are going to be a review of what we did in 656 last summer last summer You might recall, we had one lecture.
Capstone Coach 1: I mean the middle of the Semester on neural networks we didn't really spend a whole lot of time on that, but we're going to go back and look at this we're going to look at.
Capstone Coach 1: What is the neural network again just to refresh your memory what it looks like and then we're going to talk about tensorflow and charisse and how they.
Capstone Coach 1: They operate on on network will also talk about psychic learn very early on how they work within that work.
Capstone Coach 1: They will have a what I call a code break where we're going to bring some code in that you saw and we're going to look at that and go through that code and talk about it and.
Capstone Coach 1: manipulated and change it, and you know that sort of thing right now there are no bugs in that code, I think, so if you do have, if you do get a temptation to get ahead, you should be able to run that code without run into a wall, and if you if you do run into a wall, let me know.
Capstone Coach 1: You do need to have you know, like the tensorflow and charisse downloaded inside of your your spider environment, to make sure that's there.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to talk about how the activation is used in neural networks and, in particular, how it's used with respect to deep learning.
Capstone Coach 1: The the phrase deep learning really refers to the use of neural networks in a very large sets.
Capstone Coach 1: Deep learning is basically involves training some complicated newer networks large girl that works to perform some activities that.
Capstone Coach 1: That can be pretty extraordinary like image recognition and text recognition and things like that.
Capstone Coach 1: email we're going to talk about we're going to embed look at this and very much steep Hill, this is the Multi layer precept run that work that you're familiar with with to hidden layers and a binary target and we'll talk about how that's done charisse again.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: And I keep thinking like to play like i'm one PowerPoint Okay, so today there are basically three different types of deep learning and neural networks and these three are.
Capstone Coach 1: promoted by charisse tensorflow the psychic learn people they're trying to catch up, I think, but they of course psychic learn has a very good repertoire of the first one.
Capstone Coach 1: The first one is called a multi layer precept on network, these are also called fast forward neural networks, they are often used to model supervised targets it's forecasting of interval targets or classification of binary categorical nominal targets.
Capstone Coach 1: The other two convolution neural networks you're going to get familiar with tonight convolution neural network is primarily used for processing images and normally it's not unusual for image processing to use both a CNN.
Capstone Coach 1: convolution neural network, together with our ordinary a multi layer preceptor on network stack them one, on the other.
Capstone Coach 1: The last one recurrent neural network is a neural network that was originally developed for handling time series data.
Capstone Coach 1: And so it has a unique capability and that capability is that it can actually take the error that it sees in the output.
Capstone Coach 1: As it's running it'll look at the predictive value versus the actual value and it'll see the difference there and feed that back into the front of the network, now that has a very special name and time series and time series, you know it's called.
Capstone Coach 1: not moving average, but the feedback loop on a neural network and it turns out that this feedback loop for neural networks is very important for certain types of data.
Capstone Coach 1: And it works, not just for neural networks, but also, not just for time series data but also for language, for example.
Capstone Coach 1: One of the things that you're going to see you see you're seeing more and more of in language translations is.
Capstone Coach 1: The ability of the computer to look ahead as to what is the next word or what is the next group of words, going to be and that helps the gun the cube computer do a better job with the translation.
Capstone Coach 1: it's one thing, just to translate everything, word for word, according to the dictionary.
Capstone Coach 1: You might get in the ballpark but often you don't because different words have multiple meanings.
Capstone Coach 1: And so to really get the translation accurate, you have to think about the context, what came before and what's likely to come after and recurrent neural network allows you to do that a little bit more sophisticated way.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Now you've seen this, this is the mcculloch pips per sub tron this came in to being in the 1943 there was a paper that was written about.
Capstone Coach 1: Mathematical bio physics and the the intention here was to try to come up with a way to model, the human brain, the way the brain thinks mathematically, and this is what they came up with and.
Capstone Coach 1: It was kind of a nice idea that you have a series of inputs that are coming into stimulate stimulate the brain or your thinking process those inputs inputs are.
Capstone Coach 1: The Goethe become then a linear potential with, that is to say you take the inputs and you add them together with weights we multiply each one by weight.
Capstone Coach 1: So you can think of each of these lines as being a separate wait, the input is going to be multiplied by that weight and then averaged added together.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's called the see here or the formal word board is linear potential.
Capstone Coach 1: And then some ways it's just like a regression, the statement, so you can think of Z as the regression it's a statement or model that's developed from the inputs, in conjunction with the weights that are assigned to the each input.
Capstone Coach 1: And then there is an intercept you see it here it's labeled wc row, and these templates are what's calculated in a neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: When you fit a neural network to data those weights, then, are are initialized but then they are improved, they are estimated to their to their values are changed to provide a better fit or a better forecast from the model.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, the way the neural network works, how you know is that it, it has a series of perceptions, represented here by this bubble.
Capstone Coach 1: And what happens is when the linear potential comes into that bubble.
Capstone Coach 1: The bubble and call the perception or neuron some people call it a neuron it will fire off a one or a zero depending upon the value of that potential.
Capstone Coach 1: This is a binary precept tron, and this is what this was invented back in 1943 So you can see the output here becomes a zero or one.
Capstone Coach 1: The step function is called the activation functions, so you can see, this one is fairly simple it says the activation is going to be zero if the value of Z is less than some number here in the middle.
Capstone Coach 1: And if it's greater than that number than the activation is going to be one that will be the value that is actually produced this and output from the sky.
Capstone Coach 1: So the idea here is that you have a whole bunch of these in a neural network and they're all interconnected in some way in a multi layer preceptor on network, they are always.
Capstone Coach 1: forward looking and backward looking each precept tron receives inputs, as you see here and then outputs that go to the next layer of neurons.
Capstone Coach 1: And so nlp the email P network that we've been looking at for some time is characterized by several things number one.
Capstone Coach 1: It is almost always associated with the supervisor target the target is either an interval variable you want a podcast or a criteria categorical variable that you want to classify.
Capstone Coach 1: It always has layers, and these are the hidden layers and the output layer and the input layer the input layer contains basically all of the features that you have in your data that you want to use to build this model.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of inputs can be in the hundreds or thousands and so these neural network, it has the capability that especially once it is more fit to the data it can produce sophisticated responses sophisticated forecasts.
Capstone Coach 1: Each the input layer is then followed by a hidden layer and that hidden layer maybe alone or it may be multiple hidden layers and then in the very back in the very end, you have this output layer
Capstone Coach 1: Every layer is indicated connected to the previous and the following layers that's called fast forward connections fast forward means the you know the signal comes into the layer and then it it's immediately forward down to the next layer
Capstone Coach 1: The word dense is used to acknowledge the fact that usually all precept tron so connected to all of the previous ones, and all of the ones in the following layer
Capstone Coach 1: that's where dense mathematically and conceptually you don't have to have a dense random I you know neural network, the neurons don't have to be connected to everything else around them, but by default, in most cases, that is, the arrangement and it's referred to as a dense dense network.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see what we have here, this is a an example, so we have three layers one input layer one hidden layer and then whoops what happened okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go and then one output layer now the output layer is just a single neuron you can see, by itself.
Capstone Coach 1: The input so i've got four inputs X one through X four and then i've got 4% 3% trans H one, two and three, there is the output layer that little blue circle is also a perception but that's in the output layer
Capstone Coach 1: Now, this can be used to represent two basic kinds of data one.
Capstone Coach 1: It if the output here, it could be an interval variable so it could be like a regression model where you're trying to forecast something.
Capstone Coach 1: In a regression model, the difference between the regression model is that because of these interconnections this bottle is highly can be highly nonlinear.
Capstone Coach 1: If the activation function in here is basically linear, then this is going to look like an ordinary regression model.
Capstone Coach 1: because all of the weight, so all of the inputs rather are being multiplied by times coefficients and then added together so simple linear addition.
Capstone Coach 1: So that means that conceptually if the weights are good, you should get the exact same answers you'd get with ordinary regression if you're if you're looking at minimizing some of squares and.
Capstone Coach 1: The neural network would that will do a does operate on that basis when you have a you know, an output that's interval.
Capstone Coach 1: So it could, if you wanted it to just mimic an ordinary regression model but that's not what we normally do so, what we normally do is we add to the activation in these.
Capstone Coach 1: perceptions and we add that activation is a non linear activation which means, then, that this guy can fit not just straight lines, but it can also do a good job of fitting.
Capstone Coach 1: Multi dimensional nonlinear arrangements for the opposite, so you would expect it then to do better in terms of the.
Capstone Coach 1: sons of squares of residuals the R squared and things like that that doesn't always happen and the unfortunate thing is that if you're not careful, with the way the magnetic work is.
Capstone Coach 1: constructed, you have a couple of problems that you may run into one is overfitting I neural network can can re read reproduce the training data exactly.
Capstone Coach 1: Most of the time, and so that means it's a prime candidate for overfitting the you fit the training data perfectly, but then, then the validation did, and not so good that's overfitting.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's one problem, the other problem is the actual optimization or the calculating the weights estimating the weights that go into this model is a little bit computation well, it is not a little bit it's computationally complicated.
Capstone Coach 1: And sometimes the something like psychic learn or some of the software may not do a good job at actually estimating the weights.
Capstone Coach 1: But this so this puts a burden on the person who's writing the code is running this to make sure that they have looked at the optimizer.
Capstone Coach 1: All of these neural networks have what's called an optimizer, which is an admission a mathematical algorithm for estimating those weights finding the best weights, to give you a better fit.
Capstone Coach 1: And there are about a half a dozen or more optimized and charisse and the same number and psychic learn as well.
Capstone Coach 1: So you have to be careful to choose a an optimizer that works well with the data, you have and the network.
Capstone Coach 1: You have to be careful to set up the network, so that the calculation of the weights is not too complicated, you have to be careful to look for overfitting and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, with psychic learn honestly it's all it's all up to you, they just give you the algorithm they give you a you know the code.
Capstone Coach 1: You pluck this plug everything in and you'll get a fit to your neural network now then it's up to you to see whether or not that fit is worth anything or not, whether it's valuable.
Capstone Coach 1: Meaningful like anything now with charisse it's a little bit different it does what's called deep learning they refer to it as deep learning the number of weights are usually huge and the amount of time that it takes to fit the network can be huge as well, depending upon the configuration.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is this is psychic learn, and these are the inputs that input or input know import import statements.
Capstone Coach 1: Import statements that psychic learn uses and so you have one here SK alert neural network import him LP regress or.
Capstone Coach 1: Multi layer precept precept tron regress R is for basically forecasting interval variables, so this guy is used anywhere, you would ordinarily use linear regression.
Capstone Coach 1: or where you can use linear or not only regression, for that matter, you could use him LP regress or as your model to drive your model.
Capstone Coach 1: This, of course, would also be competitive to decision trees and random forest that will also fit a you know interval variable.
Capstone Coach 1: The second one that nlp classifier is for binary and nominal categorical data, and it does a great job of that so if they've separated these two because the mathematics behind the two are very different and we'll look at that here, in just a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you were going to actually use psychic learn you'll want to do some one hot encoding normally on your your nominal variables and you can use advanced analytics replacing puting code for that and it nominal encoding is is an option there.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically what you're doing is you're taking each nominal variable and if that nominal variable has five levels you're going to create five new variables.
Capstone Coach 1: binary zeros each one of them to zero, and one which represents each of the five levels that are in that nominal variable once you make that encoding you normally drop or get rid of the nominal variable of course.
Capstone Coach 1: Now this is the pre processing I think i've just.
Capstone Coach 1: talked about that this is the actual model statement and psychic learn, so you would say.
Capstone Coach 1: That stored neural network FN n is equal to nlp regress or so once you when you see male P regress are you knew right off that the target is interval the hidden layer now, this is one hidden layer is five as 5% tron Center.
Capstone Coach 1: You could write this for two or three hidden layers if you had to hidden layers you just say five, and that would be the number in the first layer comma, and then you give it another number, like, for that would be the number of precept transcend the second layer
Capstone Coach 1: The solver the optimizer is lb fgs, which is one of the oldest ones, been around forever and, by the way, and psychic learn it does a fabulous job.
Capstone Coach 1: And normally, this is the one that I use, at least, to start with, and then, if I have trouble I may switch over to something else.
Capstone Coach 1: activation you've got several options there we're going to talk about that tonight, one of them is hyperbolic tangent and that's the default and SAS it's very popular often used also here with a psychic learn.
Capstone Coach 1: The maximum number of iterations is how many the optimizer here lb fgs is going to be pushing that pushing that front of that.
Capstone Coach 1: Of that function trying to get the perfect fit to all of the data and it will make minutia changes small changes in the weeds to try to make that to get 100% classification or perfect accuracy.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, at some point, you have to tell the optimizer that that's enough for tonight, thank you and this Max iteration control slap.
Capstone Coach 1: If the number of the durations the number of attempts to change the weights to move the weights towards the optimum exceeds 1000 it shuts down quits gives you the output.
Capstone Coach 1: And now on it gives you the output it doesn't tell you that there will Oh, by the way, I hit the maximum number of iterations.
Capstone Coach 1: So be careful there I always you always have always a good idea to check to see how many iterations were actually used.
Capstone Coach 1: And if it's 1000 then maybe you want to rerun it with a larger number or you might want to look at a different may a different structure for the network apparently it's having problems finding the best value for the weights.
Capstone Coach 1: The last one random state well, will you know what that's about that just about having the ability to reproduce your solution.
Capstone Coach 1: as often as you want so as long as this is set, then your next solution with the same conditions and the same data will be exactly the same if you don't have this in your call to you know psychic learn then every solution is going to be different.
Capstone Coach 1: And finally, the once you describe what you want the network to look like here, then we call the optimizer by using the fit function happen in or model dot fit.
Capstone Coach 1: X, of course, of the features it's a some kind of a lumpy matrix usually or data frame and why is just usually it's a column, and although it can be another matrix as well.
Capstone Coach 1: display metrics as a function that's in advanced advanced analytics and what it does, is it gives you this, the classical metrics for.
Capstone Coach 1: This fit that would be the you know, in this case we have an interval variable so it's going to give you the side, the average me squared error, the square root of that and some other information that you normally see.
Capstone Coach 1: Now binary classification, it looks the same but it's not So here we have nlp classifier instead of internal P regress or.
Capstone Coach 1: The hidden layers, though, are still described in the same way we work, we have a single hidden layer, which is what we have here with five neurons.
Capstone Coach 1: And we just have the five and then, if you put another number after that then you're describing is to layer or three later, or what have you in your network notice the optimizer is the same.
Capstone Coach 1: activation is hyperbolic tangent again so everything looks the same, but because it says classifier here it's not the same.
Capstone Coach 1: The behavior of the optimizer is are going to be a little better tuned for the fact that they have a target.
Capstone Coach 1: And in the case of a classifier what we're actually calculating in this model is the probability.
Capstone Coach 1: That each have a certain states or if it's binary you get the probability that this particular case is a one, one being the event that you're trying to you know forecast, if you have multi normal data, more than one output.
Capstone Coach 1: But you have categorical data, then you would get the probability for each level of that categorical variable.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, then, of course, you have the metrics, so this is basically from a coding boot point, the only thing that's different here is the name of the function that you're calling in SK learn.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, this is a case where you have nominal targets, we are going to be looking at nominal targets, most of what we're going to do tonight is normal targets.
Capstone Coach 1: Why because we're going to be looking at images and those images then have many different classifications, and the example we're going to look at, for example, for instance.
Capstone Coach 1: These are photographs of handwritten numbers zero through nine and we'll be taking a look at how deep learning structures, the network in order to predict or to identify what what numbers in the photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, this is a very simple example but it's a good one, to start with, because the network is not overly burdensome and you'll see why.
Capstone Coach 1: Even at this level, though it's it's kind of can take some time.
Capstone Coach 1: Right So here we have a this This, I think I would call this a one hidden layer nominal.
Capstone Coach 1: Next network and particular one hidden layer nlp network nlp is identification that oh everything flows from the left to the right from the top, to the bottom, the the numbers don't back up they don't come back.
Capstone Coach 1: And everything is connected to everything else in the in the model so all of the inputs are connected to all of the hidden precept ron's in the first hidden layer
Capstone Coach 1: All of the precept Johnson, the first hidden layer are connected to all of the precept trans in the next layer now, in this case the next layer happens to be the output layer, but it could have been another hidden layer if we wanted it to be.
Capstone Coach 1: that here we have three outputs and the configuration of these preset prawns and the output layer is a little different than it is for the hidden layer
Capstone Coach 1: For the hidden layer, we have no particular requirements about scaling the output from each one of these precepts ron's if we have a preceptor on that's delivering.
Capstone Coach 1: signals that is higher than it should well the weight on that precept RON will adjust it for as input to the next one downstream so as these weights are sort of a self adjusting adjusting a way of handling problems with.
Capstone Coach 1: Over scaling or under scaling that kind of thing, but for the output layer when it gets read it gets ready to send its output downstream to the user.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, they want to make you want to make sure that this output is scaled in some respect if you're talking about nominal targets, then these output should look like probabilities.
Capstone Coach 1: Every one of them should be between zero and one you can't have a 10 you can have a minus one, and if that won't do they all have to be numbers between zero and one.
Capstone Coach 1: These are floating point numbers and Sir probabilities also, if you take these three numbers and you add them together, they should always equal one, regardless of the data.
Capstone Coach 1: So mathematically this thing is designed to achieve that, and it does that by using something called soft Max X activation.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you have nominal targets, you are in almost always going to be using soft Max activation on the output side on the output side.
Capstone Coach 1: Now for the others, the hidden layer you can use you have choices, a half a dozen or more different kinds of activation functions.
Capstone Coach 1: That you can put in the hidden layer, but on the output side, no soft Max now if this was binary where you have only a single output.
Capstone Coach 1: And that output, being the probability of a zero of probability of a one, then you don't use soft Max you use something called Sigma.
Capstone Coach 1: sigmoid Apps activation also guarantees that the numbers between zero and one but there's no requirement for all of the numbers to add up to one in a binary case you only have one probability that's coming out.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so.
Capstone Coach 1: You know this is, I think I just showed this is the nominal fit we're going to go over that we're talking about now we're talking about convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: convolution what is convolution well we're going to be talking about this for a while tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: If you have a photograph or video you have too much data just too much even a small photograph if you count the number of pixels in that photograph that photograph has a lot of data right.
Capstone Coach 1: So we need to have ways in which we tricks, if you want for how do you process these images when you have thousands or millions.
Capstone Coach 1: Of features in an image right, so it wouldn't be unusual to have a photograph let's let's say it, that is 100 by 100 pixels as a matter of fact, the screen that you're looking at right now.
Capstone Coach 1: has probably.
Capstone Coach 1: Over 1000 pixels in both directions and so, if you multiply those the hyphens the whip you get a very large number of pixels on your screen right.
Capstone Coach 1: that's a good thing, because it gives a certain resolution and we can see what's on the screen and things like that, but.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're talking about analyzing what's on the screen oh boy, we need to reduce the information that's there down to some manageable size.
Capstone Coach 1: And what is manageable of course depends upon the what you're trying to achieve if you're just looking for a large object or a single object.
Capstone Coach 1: In the photograph then that's much easier than if you were looking for multiple objects smaller.
Capstone Coach 1: And so you require more resolution and things like that so tonight we're going to be looking at a problem where the photographs are pretty nice to us there they have.
Capstone Coach 1: they're only 28 by 28, thank goodness, so you have so bad, but 2828 is 784 pixels so you still have 784 features.
Capstone Coach 1: That you have to deal with, and these are all new numbers so we'll see how that's done you're you're basically the trick to handling this sort of information.
Capstone Coach 1: is to use convolution and that's what under CNN is convoluted does not forget the TV show the news network stands for convolution neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: And the main difference between the LP and CNN is that see it in Einstein designed to pre process large scale photographs and this is so much fun.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, we could go on and on about this and we probably will for a lot for the rest of the Semester, but the the techniques for processing photographs images are are amazing.
Capstone Coach 1: First, the images are converted to 10 source and you've heard the word tense or many times tensorflow what's utensil or well it's a fancy word that.
Capstone Coach 1: Amazon made up oh sorry Google for forgiving Google.
Capstone Coach 1: Google made up the word tensile and it basically refers to a non P array of almost any number of dimensions in the context of photographs it's usually four dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: And the context of it can be three dimensions but it's usually four and then, in the context of video, you have a fifth dimension which is time right.
Capstone Coach 1: So, think about that as far as processing but we're just going to look at the simple thing of photographs tonight 28 by 28 usually you have a supervised target you're trying to classify the photographs so ordinarily with photographs, the target is either binary or nominal.
Capstone Coach 1: binary example that will look at is looking at X rays, to determine whether the X Ray is normal or abnormal so that would be a simple question.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's a binary question so your target, there would be binary you would have a collection of X rays that were from normal patients.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you would have others have probably the same amount same number that are from patients with an abnormality.
Capstone Coach 1: And you use then you're going to train your deep learning network using those photographs to recognize which one X Ray is normal, and which one is not.
Capstone Coach 1: Now nominal classification also occurs and would the example we look going to look at tonight is nominal and the number of nominal classes can be quite large.
Capstone Coach 1: 10 is not unusual, but you could have actually several hundred suppose, for example, you're trying to do your training the computer to recognize all of the products that are sold in the grocery store.
Capstone Coach 1: You know you have a camera and it's watching everything it's coming across the belt and then it's sort of looking to see Okay, is that can good is that frozen good is it candy is that an ice cream yet sort of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: So you have literally hundreds of things that it might be trying to identify so you're a nominal classification problem, then, is very large.
Capstone Coach 1: Unlike nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: Networks we're going to have many more layers normally and an nlp network multi layer preceptor on network, the number of hidden layers is one, two or three it's unusual to see something more than that.
Capstone Coach 1: Man why well there is a mathematical theorem that says.
Capstone Coach 1: Regard for an ml P network.
Capstone Coach 1: A you can always always find a one hidden layer solution that is as good as anything else Okay, if you put enough.
Capstone Coach 1: preceptor on so that first hidden layer that it's going to it can do as well or outperform see configurations where you have maybe two or three hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, as a result of that what you see a lot of people doing, including myself, is basically cramming a whole bunch of perceptions in that first layer
Capstone Coach 1: Running it's running it to see how well it does, and then, if I noticed that i'm having trouble fitting than that, though, that huge number of perceptions, whatever it is.
Capstone Coach 1: And the solution so i'm getting her bouncing all over the place, I get a really good solution, and then the next run out garbage and then another one oh, it looks good garbage you know that's just random noise so it's affecting the optimizer.
Capstone Coach 1: Then I know the optimizer is having problems fitting the network and that that point, I will try to go to multi layers two layers maybe three layers and I will stack the layers and so.
Capstone Coach 1: Personally, what I do is I look at how many inputs do I have let's suppose I have 100 inputs and then I also look at how much data do I have well.
Capstone Coach 1: If I have 100 inputs in 100 cases or observations i'm in serious trouble, so what I hope to see is 100 cases and 10,000 or 20,000 or more.
Capstone Coach 1: Cases so let's suppose that that's a situation i've got 100 features and i've got thousands of observations here that i'm going to process to fit this network.
Capstone Coach 1: In that situation i'll put 100% ron's the number precept ronson the first hidden layer will be the same as the number of inputs.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm overloading them, so you know that should do a pretty good job of fitting the data unless there's some complexity about the data that.
Capstone Coach 1: I understand, and I will try to do that and then from that I might shrink the first layer
Capstone Coach 1: I might also then put a second layer behind the first, and when I put that second layer in there it's good to have fewer preceptor on So if I have 100 and the first.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to go to about 50 about half in the second and then the third one i'll go to even smaller half of that so normally I go half half half.
Capstone Coach 1: When I back off and come in with these other networks and the only reason to bring in those other networks is so that the solutions, become more stable and more.
Capstone Coach 1: Reliable.
Capstone Coach 1: The other thing that CNN has that nlp has is it's going to be dense all preset drones are connected to all previous on following layers so the interconnections in a CNN network are huge.
Capstone Coach 1: What you're going to see also with the CNN because of this characteristics as you're going to say is that the number of weights in the CNN network it gets to be enormous and i'm talking over a million.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the and you're thinking wait a minute i've only got 100 photographs.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah but each photograph is cut like 12,000 data points you know 12,000 pixels on that photograph sort of process that photograph we're going to need a very complicated arrangement here to basically strip out the information that's in that photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: So the main difference between nlp and CNN is that CNN is used to process large scale photographs and videos.
Capstone Coach 1: First, these photographs are converted to send sores and then they basically in a convolution network, the sense of the 10th source rather are filtered.
Capstone Coach 1: By convolution and to strip out to simplify the photograph so the photograph starts out as a 100 by 100 pixels and what happens is these.
Capstone Coach 1: convolution filters will narrow will produce new types of images new types of images from the original that are much smaller and they get more and more focused on what is on the characteristics in the photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: There are a class of filters, for example, so you may have seen some of these if you.
Capstone Coach 1: If you work with the in photography and nowadays, you have things like photoshop that will allow you to do some pretty amazing things with photographs change the colors.
Capstone Coach 1: And there are certain types of filters that are used there that are going to be here, you will see them used in a convolution that work, and so, for example, one of the filters is.
Capstone Coach 1: process the photograph so that I can see only the horizontal lines and the picture.
Capstone Coach 1: Then there's another photograph that says, do the same thing, but now give me the vertical lines.
Capstone Coach 1: that are in the picture now a line would be a part of the photograph where the color changes dramatically from the or the other, like intensity changes dramatically from low to high and then back to low again.
Capstone Coach 1: So these that's what the filters are doing they're looking for lines that are in the photograph and then the neural network will.
Capstone Coach 1: process these images these lines to identify different types of objects.
Capstone Coach 1: And, for example, if you're processing the face well, of course, you're you're you're you're looking for something you know, an image that's.
Capstone Coach 1: Somewhat round and then you're looking for dark areas, the eyes the nose and the mouth and things like that that's all done that can all be done through convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: The recurrent neural network rem is also available and charisse and, as I mentioned this, this is primarily used for data that have a time component.
Capstone Coach 1: Of the you can order the photographs, or you can order, whatever the data is it doesn't have to be photographs, it could be just regular time series data.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're processing ordinary time series data and it's very complicated and you have information.
Capstone Coach 1: Common that information about the data that are that's part of the feature structure as a, not only do you have the output that's you know time oriented, but you also have features that help describe.
Capstone Coach 1: The output itself, then a rnn neural network is is a useful machine for doing time series forecasting normally when you take a course in statistics, they teach you about arena.
Capstone Coach 1: Are regressive moving average type of a model, and those are very good, they were invented sometime ago when we didn't have these kinds of computers.
Capstone Coach 1: And you wanted a technique that you could use that gave you a pretty sophisticated answer.
Capstone Coach 1: That describe the structure of the data and also gave you pretty good forecasts that could be developed quickly with few complications, and so the arena.
Capstone Coach 1: models that you see a really good at that they're they're also very good at just describing the structure of the phenomenon that you're looking at.
Capstone Coach 1: If you don't really care about all of that structure, you can use an rnn and rnn will grab a ton of data and produce a a very sophisticated time series forecast based upon all of that data.
Capstone Coach 1: These are fairly new, by the way.
Capstone Coach 1: Back about 15 years ago we knew they existed, I mean there was the mathematical theory was there, but the code to do this wasn't available and the computing power wasn't there as well, so these are just now starting to come into their own for forecasting.
Capstone Coach 1: And soon we got here so for let's let's go talk about tensorflow in Paris just for a moment here i'm showing you the the usual imports, so you say importance of florists Ts tf tensorflow as tf and you always have this and, as you re import not be is normally there as well.
Capstone Coach 1: not be intensive for tensorflow are they like live together, so, if you look at what what is a tense, or what you find is that a tense or is a number array.
Capstone Coach 1: Of multi dimensions, basically, when we think of a race we normally think of a two way table like an excel table or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: or a two way matrix most linear algebra courses spend a ton of time on the idea of a two way matrix and not be certainly handles that.
Capstone Coach 1: But not they will also handle three, four and five dimensions structures and arrays and a tense or is basically a structured array.
Capstone Coach 1: Where you normally have more than just two, you can have only two dimensions in a tense or or even only one but and when it comes to photography they're usually three or four dimensions, at least.
Capstone Coach 1: So what is a tense or well it's a it's a lumpy like array multiple dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's something that Google started using their jerk on to refer to the fact that I guess they probably found people when you said array.
Capstone Coach 1: They thought automatically two dimensions of our most mathematicians will say what why, if you have an array can be any number of dimensions well typically in your linear algebra classes it's just talked about in the two dimensional context.
Capstone Coach 1: From tensorflow work flow charisse important model, so this is the import statement that lets you design a neural network model.
Capstone Coach 1: Then you have layers, which is the structure within carousel lets you design the hidden layers and the output layer
Capstone Coach 1: And then you have utilities like import to God categorical hey guess what this to categorical here will take a nominal.
Capstone Coach 1: series, you know, like a y value that's all like 1234 or five that kind of thing and convert it to one hat I want hot So if you say to categorical then in parentheses you give it why it's going to return the one hot columns for that why.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's really cool man it's so easy to use this bulletproof one one statement actually so when you're running a neural network, you want to do that you want to change all of your categorical data to one hot columns even the target is going to be handled in this way.
Capstone Coach 1: The data sets care assessment data sets for examples and the one we're going to be using most today is called in NIS T.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is a survey says 70,000 images actually 70,000 black and white photographs each one of them is 28 by 28 pixels Thank goodness.
Capstone Coach 1: Each one of those black and white, thank goodness, and so we don't have we have 784 pixels on each image and that's what we have to process, which means that we can do this on a relatively slow computer and not wait all night for the solution.
Capstone Coach 1: Now from tensorflow charisse optimizes we have several that are available, this has become my latest favorite it's called alpha Delta.
Capstone Coach 1: I have used all of the optimizer, most recently, and several different contexts this guy seems to work had head over heels over everything else.
Capstone Coach 1: There is another one that's very popular it's called Adam Ada and it's been around for some time at a delta is basically a small but important change to add them.
Capstone Coach 1: So at a delta changes the learning rate as you get closer and closer to the optimum and that seems to make it more stable and a little more aggressive in terms of finding a good solution.
Capstone Coach 1: This is fairly recent i'd say the last three four years and it's only found right now and charisse and so you if you pick up a book.
Capstone Coach 1: And look read through the book, you may see no reference to it you'll see references to add on.
Capstone Coach 1: And then there's some other optimizes that are popular, but if you get a recent book let's say 2019 or or before or later you'll see more references to this.
Capstone Coach 1: and give it a try, you can only see us the others good I like to try them all and see which one performs better now let's see did I get that right right.
Capstone Coach 1: rnn.
Capstone Coach 1: The data has a time component supervised targeted dance, and I think I did the server ready.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, this is the imports for me LP.
Capstone Coach 1: And we just talked about that what what's going on all right hand written business, this is the data we're going to be looking at tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: So what they did was they took a whole bunch of people and ask these people to write down the numbers zero to nine.
Capstone Coach 1: On pieces of paper, and then they photograph them and they they put them in black and white, and so there we have we have 70,000 of these guys 60,000 are categorized as the training sample and then 110,000 are categorized as the validation sample.
Capstone Coach 1: We when you analyze these there are a couple ways to do it the first way we're going to do it is we're going to take the M LP approach.
Capstone Coach 1: Multi layer perception approach and i'm surprised at how well those tasks, by the way.
Capstone Coach 1: But it does pretty good so let's take a look and see what happens there and then we're going to talk about convolution and what that what is really going on with convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you're going to work with this kind of data, the first thing that you'll do is you'll read in the photographs the photographs will come in as an image.
Capstone Coach 1: into Python and, basically, if you look at the structure that image it'll be a number of the array yeah black and white images come in as a basically a two dimensional array.
Capstone Coach 1: And, but it's stored in not be it's stored in three dimensions so you'll have, if you look at the the well actually four dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: If you look at the first dimension you'll see the observation number Okay, so if I read in X T here which will do in just a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: And then I look at the shape of X T you'll see there for numbers, the first number will be 60,000, which is the number of rows your have the next number will be 28 the width of the fixture the next number 28 the height of the picture the next number one.
Capstone Coach 1: That last number is called the Channel and for black and white it's only there's only one channel if you're dealing with color photographs that last number will be three.
Capstone Coach 1: Red blue green, so the the photo color photographs are basically three different pictures that are overlaid one, on the other, blue red and green.
Capstone Coach 1: And the your eyes, does he do a great job of blending those colors together to come up with a rich colored photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: But on the computer the computer can see oh that's green that's red that's blue, and they are different actually different data structures.
Capstone Coach 1: So you'll be able to actually pull those out from the on the computer and process them separately.
Capstone Coach 1: You could do things like take a full color photograph and make it black and white, for obvious reasons right it's do you don't want three times as much data if you can cut back you can cut a third of the data that's pretty good.
Kilani, Shadi: pretty good job, I have a question.
Capstone Coach 1: sure.
Kilani, Shadi: This is.
Capstone Coach 1: Wait a minute, let me find a let me find the.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, where is it.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh there it is okay, I need to pull up the.
Capstone Coach 1: i'd like to pull up the.
Capstone Coach 1: chat and everything and.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay yeah sure go ahead, no.
Kilani, Shadi: Just a question about the data prep how much how Labor intensive, it is to convert those images and what exactly how do you do that or what's like a general idea of course i'm not you know we can force you know.
Kilani, Shadi: But just yeah, how do you convert the image to this these arrays seems, at least from my point of view, what i'm seeing.
Kilani, Shadi: It seems like it's very Labor intensive are very complicated, but maybe there's a way to do it.
Capstone Coach 1: No actually well, you can take an image and read it read it, as you can take an ordinary jpeg image and read it as a no as a numeric file.
Capstone Coach 1: In Python.
Kilani, Shadi: it's as simple as that okay.
Capstone Coach 1: The image.
Capstone Coach 1: Every image is just a series of numbers belief in the facts, so, if you look at these these black and white images here white is the number 255.
Capstone Coach 1: Black is zero on these images, if you were to pull out these actually look at the numbers and which you can which we will do here and look at these numbers you'll see Oh, most of the number serves and zero, which is black oh here's a here's a 255 white.
Capstone Coach 1: So, and in fact that's what allows convolution to work so well so convolutions scan this image and see oh.
Capstone Coach 1: A white area, right here, why area, right here by around it's all you know it's going to see.
Capstone Coach 1: several pieces of information that allow you to identify these numbers in on the computer so actually you know you could you could set up.
Capstone Coach 1: You can take a video, for example, off of a drone or something like that, and you can pull out off of video the individual pictures right.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you're taking a photograph nowadays if you're taking videos on your camera it's probably going to be 4k resolution, which means the number of pixels is huge.
Capstone Coach 1: And the number of frames per second is probably 3024 30 maybe 60 if you have a really high tech camera or something like that, so that means if you've got a video you basically have 30 photographs per second in that file.
Capstone Coach 1: And now, if you get you have to have a healthy computer to bring all that video in and then you could pull out any frame you wanted to and look at it and process it.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's just going to be numbers.
Capstone Coach 1: So it seems come more more complicated COMP COMP complex than it actually is, but anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: Like like to go over the good question, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay it's seven o'clock.
Capstone Coach 1: I think it's a water break time, so, if you would please let's take a 10 minute break here and download there's a file that I want you to download and start up spider.
Capstone Coach 1: Let me see if I can pull up the campus here.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go the one that says LP on it we're going to start there.
Capstone Coach 1: So we're going to start we're going to look at the photographs and the numbers and the photographs and all that sort of thing and look at how we use an ordinary neural network to process images and then.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to go to the convolution type of approach, which is the more sophisticated deep learning approach that gives us additional information okay so let's let's get reconvene and 710.
Capstone Coach 1: get some coffee or some water and see that.
Capstone Coach 1: Shall we get started here, first of all, are there any questions.
Capstone Coach 1: about what we've what we've been talking about or otherwise.
Fireman, Karen: You know, it seems easy when you do it.
Capstone Coach 1: You what.
Fireman, Karen: It said it always seems easy when you do it.
Jim Clark: jones's Jim I do have a question about.
Jim Clark: Some of this and maybe this is something related to this there's so many different combinations of choices, you can make.
Jim Clark: Two or how many.
Jim Clark: You know I think perceptions you you build in and and you do this again and again and again to your specified this good enough, is there a way to kind of semi automates the process, so he will he will run through all those pages, for you or or zero in on the best method.
Capstone Coach 1: well.
Capstone Coach 1: You know.
Capstone Coach 1: it's it's most things are like this are just experience you know the, the more you do it, the more you realize, there are there's there are things that you want to look for.
Capstone Coach 1: But there's no formal process for it.
Capstone Coach 1: Especially this material because it much of a changes so quickly the.
Capstone Coach 1: The types of packages that we're using only been out for a few years and curious now they'll probably be different so.
Capstone Coach 1: You have to have the ability to read the documentation and adjust what you're doing to the new new approaches what's going on.
Capstone Coach 1: For example, right now, we're talking about tensorflow and charisse which came from Google right, and this is, this has been touted now is Oh, this is so great so good, you can do deep learning about all these different things that we weren't able to do before and that's all true.
Capstone Coach 1: In fact, they pretty much have Cone coined the word deep learning, but really When did they come out well it came out just a few years ago.
Capstone Coach 1: And before that there was no deep learning and, by the way, there's a new one out now it's called P wide torch may have heard of that that the torch is similar to tensorflow.
Capstone Coach 1: Except that it came from Facebook so Facebook is jumping in in the arena and saying what we've got some pretty cool software over here to that we can.
Capstone Coach 1: provide to the general public that will help you recognize images and things like that so P, why torches and other alternative that's growing popularity and probably continue to do so apple hasn't come out with anyone or no nothing really that we noticed but probably will soon.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Jim Clark: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: let's take a look at that code so i've opened it up here on in spider and if you could follow, along with me, he will start at the top.
Capstone Coach 1: and take a look at the import statements, and these are similar what you saw when we were talking earlier about the inputs for SK SK learner here logistic regression and nlp classifier nlp regress over is not in there, because the target in this case is nominal.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you have a bunch of imports for tensorflow The first one is always tensorflow as tf.
Capstone Coach 1: And then charisse is a subsystem within tensorflow so it's always tensorflow dot charisse import something.
Capstone Coach 1: So this something the models program comes from tensorflow but tensorflow is within i'm sorry comes from charisse but charisse is within them, I don't know you know they didn't get too confusing obviously this is a product that grew over time as so they did more and more things.
Capstone Coach 1: The models is going to let us build the nlp models multi layer preset tron neural networks layers is the procedure that lets us build the hidden layers and the output layer in network.
Capstone Coach 1: regularize or we haven't talked a lot about that, but there are two major forms of regular risers in deep learning.
Capstone Coach 1: That are basically used to control the weights that go in the network, so you know we have l one l to regularization for regression that are designed to control the.
Capstone Coach 1: Multi linearity effects among the coefficients while you have the same thing here you have l one l to available plus another one that you don't see in regression.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we have some utilities, here we have categorical for building one hot categorical data.
Capstone Coach 1: We have him in is where we're going to be pulling the data from and then these are the most popular optimized servers Adam is is been around for some time rms propagation.
Capstone Coach 1: At a delta, which is the one that i'm going to mostly use and then sgt and other form of optimizer basically you use your favorite and then, when your favorite doesn't work for you, you try another look for a new favorites.
Capstone Coach 1: There is a big function here called charisse accuracy plots and that's all it does it's not doing much of any kind of calculation for you it's just summarizing the results of the learning model that you just created.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is a giveaway something i've had to put together so that we could see the results of our analysis.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's in this program it's you're going to see the other programs as well i'm just going to scroll down to the bottom, it says, right here, it says in of charisse graph and metric function so that's the end of the function.
Capstone Coach 1: And now we start with the real.
Capstone Coach 1: Learning going on here so number one let's go to the top back i'm sorry I should have deafness let's run all of these imports so grab them, just like that select them right click and see run selection.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll see it come up over here in your I Python window if everything is.
Capstone Coach 1: installed and it recognizes, all of this, then you get just know the prompt no errors, if you get an error there's something probably not installed on your machine.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, hopefully, no one, no one saw that that scroll back down to the bottom of this long function, so now i'm going to line number 170 166 mixture, it says true in 166.
Capstone Coach 1: There are several there are two sections or three sections of code here, and I use this habit of creating a flag, like in this case data reset equals true which controls which section, you can just going to run and so forth.
Capstone Coach 1: So this section is the section that reads the Dana, so I would like, for you to highlight the statement 170 on your code here again right click one run selection.
Capstone Coach 1: bang pretty fast right.
Capstone Coach 1: What well, maybe it's fast because i've already read this so many times.
Capstone Coach 1: So generally run faster you.
Jim Clark: Well, well, Sir, I was just going to ask him, he said 166 I think that.
Capstone Coach 1: 117 on my.
Capstone Coach 1: machine says 170 917 day.
Capstone Coach 1: It says X T whitey X ve y equals to me and I St dot load data.
Capstone Coach 1: So this this command actually read send all those 70,000 photographs.
Capstone Coach 1: That you was able to get that running champ Can somebody confirm.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, Professor yes.
Zuberi, Bilal: it's very fast for us.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, I don't want to move ahead until we.
Capstone Coach 1: were like everybody's got the data right.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you've got the data, then what i'd like you to do is go over to the I Python live window and type eye X ti dot shape, I think you know this command this command basically says tell me what your shaped like X ti X T is the training.
Capstone Coach 1: matrix is coming across it's got 60,000 rows and then two columns 28th and 28 that's the width and the height of the picture.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the total number of variables and of values for each pixel is denoted by a number is 28 times 28 784.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, if you look at if you type another thing you should might be curious about is what is this anyway type in type and then inside parentheses X T like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And it'll tell you it's a non P array so the data just came in, as an empty array but you notice it doesn't say photo photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: No photographs come in as an up erase erase of numbers hmm this is curious let's take a look at the first line in X T so go X T and then in parentheses in brackets now zero like that and let's see what we get who wow, this is the first photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: hmm remember what I said about zeros and.
Capstone Coach 1: All of those heroes are black areas and the photograph and then the numbers to 55 that's the wide area numbers between them like here's an ad in a 156 those are great.
Capstone Coach 1: The smaller than number the lighter Gray, the darker the closer, it is to 50 to 55 the darker tests right.
Capstone Coach 1: So well that's cool So if you have the photograph one photograph it's basically a set of numbers, and this is a two by it's a tube, by the way, not be array it's got 28 rows and 28 columns notice the square brackets here.
Capstone Coach 1: Each row is a list of 28 numbers right there i've highlighted the first row and here comes the second row.
Capstone Coach 1: Each that's that's basically a line of pixels going from left to right on the photograph and then you have another row like that another line there are 228 lines because it's 200 i'm sorry 2028 lines 28 lines on this photograph right.
Capstone Coach 1: So if I take a look at one line one line by itself let's say I go here i'm going to type in X T and then bracket zero, which means i'm looking at the first photograph and then i'm going to go comma.
Capstone Coach 1: Zero comma zero, which is the first line of pixels on the first photograph and now I go comma and i'm just going to put a colon in there, like that, and this is sort of not be notation or at least it should be, this should show me the 28 pixels on the first line right there.
Capstone Coach 1: notice the data type is integer eight, which is a good thing, there conserving memory.
Capstone Coach 1: So, each one of these numbers is a small integer so we only need eight bits to represent it so we can put a lot of photographs in memory.
Capstone Coach 1: If they're only using eight bits of data for each number in that photograph right so let's let's go down down and let's go to line number 10 and the photograph which is near the middle right.
Capstone Coach 1: So the other 28 lines, the one in the middle, is actually well let's go to line 14 right, that is, the middle.
Capstone Coach 1: and see what we got all right so hear us now see some zeros and now some larger numbers, so the zeros of the black.
Capstone Coach 1: And the larger numbers like to 40 to 50 that's white, so we if we were to take a line and drop the middle of this photograph we see we cry we it looks like we're going to cross a white line right there in the middle, you can see how that works out right.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: what's the getting curious about what this first photograph actually is let's go into the code here and let's take a look at says.
Capstone Coach 1: who's been.
Capstone Coach 1: There I do have some code in here so here it is yeah if you really want to see what one of these looks like you use.
Capstone Coach 1: guess what math plot line.
Capstone Coach 1: You just say plot dot IMS show see this guy right here huh cool let's highlight that this is line 175 and 176 let's highlight that go right click run.
Capstone Coach 1: Ah, so this is the number anybody want to guess is just like I wrote this okay it's a five, and if you were to draw a line right in the middle, you can see it's going to cross that number one time.
Capstone Coach 1: there's no if you had an eight you probably cross twice or something like that, so this is the first photograph it's a five cool now let's change that zero there to know I don't know let's change it to a nine and rerun this and see what we get if we change it to a nine.
Capstone Coach 1: boom oh it's a for cool So if I take the four and I run a straight white line of pixels through that I should get two areas of white is that right yeah so let's try this let's go X T.
Capstone Coach 1: bracket.
Capstone Coach 1: For Well, this is no i'm sorry this is nine so it's actually image number 10 and then we're going to go over halfway down, would it be about 14 and then a comma and a colon like that see what we did.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so it's nine comma 14 comma colon and now i'm going to hit a return.
Capstone Coach 1: There the numbers and now notice that we have two fields with white, we have a field, right here.
Capstone Coach 1: On the left and then it goes down to see us going down to the dark area, and then it comes back up.
Capstone Coach 1: To fields with white now, this is what is happening with the neural network it's analyzing these patterns that are in the data to see what to look for differences in the digits so there's another column, which is up here it's y te.
Capstone Coach 1: And if I type in whitey and then in brackets nine.
Capstone Coach 1: guess what huh for.
Capstone Coach 1: whitey bracket zero.
Capstone Coach 1: hmm five y T is the target.
Capstone Coach 1: it's the actual solution to the question what number is it.
Capstone Coach 1: So the neural network once it's going to build a network that tells you Oh, this is the number three number four number five or what have you and it's going to do so by comparing the patterns and the pixels to the target values that you have here right.
Capstone Coach 1: And so the network will learn to differentiate between four and 504 is got multiple spots of white a five one so on a very basic level that's what's kind of what's going on, so.
Kilani, Shadi: Dr Jones I have a question.
Kilani, Shadi: So I got the part of initially when you said about loading the pictures and they come in, as you know, zeros and ones that don't make sense as numbers, but what about the Why did we have to program that because that's something we need to tell them right that this is a five is.
Capstone Coach 1: That is correct, whoever created this data.
Capstone Coach 1: They would have gotten the photographs off with a digital camera Thank God for digital cameras right, by the way, I was thinking about that question during the break and I was thinking oh wait a minute yeah if we were still using analog cameras, this would be a painting.
Capstone Coach 1: Because you have to digitize those pixels but nowadays digital cameras do this automatically so they store the photograph as a set of numbers, basically.
Capstone Coach 1: But now, if you're talking about why somebody has to actually go in and type in okay that's photograph five okay that's a photograph of for that's a photograph three yeah somebody that was not automatic.
Capstone Coach 1: When they registered the photographs they reached out to them according to that y value.
Kilani, Shadi: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah so it's not not entirely.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah it's not a not at all easy.
Capstone Coach 1: If you were doing if you wanted to to do this, instead of recognizing digits you want to recognize males and females let's say boys and girls something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: that's probably going to be easier because it's binary you only have to, but for each photograph somebody's got to look at it and saying boy okay girl, you know.
Capstone Coach 1: That kind of thing and then you can input that into the computer and then that is used to train the neural network, along with the photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so, if you look at the data, the way it came in it came in as a training data set 60,000 images and as a validation data set an additional 10,000.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of pixels well, that would be 28 times 28.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Wait a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: This looks like i've coated wrong, this is very wrong.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Because no, no, no it's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: Because X zero is the first photograph right So if I go X T zero.
Capstone Coach 1: dot shape.
Capstone Coach 1: You just you just see the default one photographic Sierra photograph and you can see it's 28 by 28 so the total pixels was 28 times 28 784.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of classes, the number of different digits that are found in the data, you can get that by using the unique function and not be in P dot unique and then you give it the name of the series, so this case whitey and the link will that actually if you say in NP not be unique.
Capstone Coach 1: And why T the training data well it prints out all of the unique values that it finds in why.
Capstone Coach 1: And the same thing with why V could get the same information there, so the number of distinct values and why is the length of the array So if you type in length and then NP unique.
Capstone Coach 1: y te.
Capstone Coach 1: You get 10 yeah 10 dishes okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's being called classes, right here, and then just for the heck of it we're printing out the first image, you could pronounce more if you wanted to but you'll see that we're just using.
Capstone Coach 1: The math lab map plot line to do to print out that image.
Capstone Coach 1: notice that it says Gray it tells the, this is a code to math plot line that this is not a clear photo, this is a great now the reason that's important is because the color photo is going to have three images.
Capstone Coach 1: And there'll be a green blue and green and a red image they will all have set 28 by 28 pixels so math plot live by telling the math plotline, that is, this is a great image it knows oh just one light layer only 784 pixels fine.
Capstone Coach 1: If you say no it's color if you don't put this in there, it seems that it's color it's got three levels to it and it's going to try to basically display them by overlaying them on your monitor right because your monitor has three layers as well red blue green usually.
Capstone Coach 1: um so then we were counting up here, the number of train images, the number of validation images 60 and 10 the total number of pixels which would be here.
Capstone Coach 1: The width by the height.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of glasses we've got that okay now now we get to something that's kind of important it's called reshape.
Capstone Coach 1: resize reshape it allows us is a operator and let's see where does that come from.
Capstone Coach 1: that's a lumpy operator.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: reshape allows you to take a lumpy array and to reconfigure it so i'm going to i'm going to at this point we have.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see we have X T in there right there so i'm going to run this so i'm going to right click and say run the selection well whoops pixels is not defined I cheated all right, I need to run everything difference there like that okay.
Capstone Coach 1: define what takes us actually years how many pixels are there in the photo all right that's it one all that.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go it says images contains 784 pixels and 10 classes okay yeah, we know that so here now what i'd like to do is to say, well X T, what is the shape of X T.
Capstone Coach 1: it's 6028 and 28 now what is extreme.
Capstone Coach 1: shape.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, what happened oh.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you see what happened in the X T the incoming data is actually a three dimensional lumpy array 60,000 rows and then 28 that the dimensions and 28 dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: The reshape what it did was it says, let me take each one of these photographs and get rid of all those brackets and just make it 784 pixels Yahoo.
Capstone Coach 1: Because the neural network doesn't care about the orientation of the photograph what line you're on what height Iran it's looking for patterns among those pixels so.
Capstone Coach 1: The neural network does need to have this neural network, the nlp network doesn't need to have information on what line and what column around.
Capstone Coach 1: So this will this is called a tensor and what we just did was we took a three dimensional lumpy array and make it a two dimensional tense are.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, and so this allows this will run faster on the neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: And we don't even know about it really let's do the same thing of the validation data so let's let's choose the next couple of lines and go run that and you'll see the same thing happens again is that it goes from three down to two dimensions.
Capstone Coach 1: And we can then save it out as a csv file if you grab all this and and and basically say run again then it's going to take the data that we have and put it out into two csv files one for train caltrain csv and one called validate csv okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Before we do that let's let's make it let's make life easy down here, where it says model, one true take make that a false.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: alrighty and then run the whole program because basically the what's the run will do is just run what we were just doing.
Capstone Coach 1: it's going to redo it start from the front and from the top.
Capstone Coach 1: From south shows you the little number four, which is the first image.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah or I don't know if we change the number of number nine I think in the code, I may have changed that number two.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah which I change it to a number nine so that's the ninth image actually.
Capstone Coach 1: So right now it's reading the data and reshaping the data and setting things up that we're ready to go.
Capstone Coach 1: And it just a moment it's it'll give us another i'm done cursor.
Capstone Coach 1: The part of what's happening here is the the y data are are getting encoded they are becoming one hot column So you see why train is equal to two categorical why key.
Capstone Coach 1: This is creating TIM one hot columns from the training data, and then we do the same thing down here 10 one hot columns for the validation data.
Capstone Coach 1: And then i'm getting kind of cool here i'm putting all of this into a data frame didn't really need to do this and then and then pushing it from the data frame out to a csv file, this is not very cool, this is not very convenient what he called conservative.
Capstone Coach 1: slower, a lot more unnecessary work didn't really need to do that, because what we're going to be operating on in 15 or network or X train why train.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the X and the y validate that's what will be using, but I wanted to save it off, and so I did all this stuff here which really just confuses the they should probably not a good thing let's scroll down to the start of the real code which is down here, where it says false.
Capstone Coach 1: And now we're going to work through this area, piece by piece, so you sort of see what's going on at this point, the data set up if I say if I say X train like that Shay.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah 60,007 84.
Capstone Coach 1: X underscore validate shape same sort of thing it'll be 716 thousand 794 Okay, so now we're ready to start doing some deep learning.
Capstone Coach 1: I like that word so first of all that we're going to start the clock, but we're not going to start the clock because because we're going to goof around so much the time does mean too much.
Capstone Coach 1: But it will timeout if you run this if you change this to true and run it it'll run the whole code, but I want to want to this piece by piece or explained kind of what's going on here, first of all here is how you set the random seed and tensor.
Capstone Coach 1: tf tensorflow dot random that set seed and then some number like that, if you don't do this before you build a model.
Capstone Coach 1: Certainly well what's going to happen is your results will vary from one run to the next run I don't like that I like to be able to make changes and see what happens when I make those changes and not worry about randomness of the data itself.
Capstone Coach 1: So I like to set the seed, before I start tensorflow and then we're going to build a model, so the number of fire 253.
Capstone Coach 1: down to number 262 you see all of that this has to do with defining what the neural network looks like.
Capstone Coach 1: This is an m LP multi layer preceptor on network, so I know it's going to be dense everything's connected to everything else.
Capstone Coach 1: And the the first layer comes in, then the second layer, then the third and they're all one after another connected.
Capstone Coach 1: In this case, i'm just going to have two layers i'm going to have one hidden layer you see it here called layer one and then we'll have one output layer called layer out right how many neurons are we going to have in that first layer
Capstone Coach 1: 794.
Capstone Coach 1: The number of pixels so we have ooh.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay 784.
Capstone Coach 1: The input dimensions, will be the number of features which is 784.
Capstone Coach 1: Number of neurons does not have to equal, the number of inputs so that's why they're asking for both numbers here's the number of inputs.
Capstone Coach 1: And then put dimension and then this is the number perceptions which could be less than or even more than I saw an example where they were using like.
Capstone Coach 1: To me, usually more preset fronts and data it's a little overkill.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't like to get.
Capstone Coach 1: This least as a start and then, then it says, let me move this out of the way Colonel regularization equals none hmm This is where you set l one l to regularization if you're going to use it and we will play with this and just a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: Activity regularization another place where you can institute regularization and your model activation our email you Oh yes, thank goodness.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to talk about activation, but this is, this is the one that you use in deep learning, if you have a very big network use our e l you.
Capstone Coach 1: And the reason is the computation of this activation is very fast very efficient it's going to run a lot faster if you use something like an H, or even sigmoid or something like that slower.
Capstone Coach 1: than you want to make sure you name the layer so that when you look at the output, you know what you're looking at it in one.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, here comes the output layer make sure the activation is appropriate for the target here, it says soft Max because we have a nominal target.
Capstone Coach 1: If I had a binary target, it would be sigmoid and, if I have a an interval target, it would be none, and we look at this, I think, in our last week.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the name i'm just always going to call it out, but.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you add layer one lead layer out and then summary this model summary will show you your work so let's let's grab the statements, all the way from tf random.
Capstone Coach 1: down to model summary and let's right click on that and run and see what we get there's what we get.
Capstone Coach 1: It shows you the we have two layers a hidden layer and an output layer in the hidden layer we have 615,000 440 weights and that's much.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's because we have 784 inputs going into 794% so 784 times 784 is more than 615,000 that's where that big number comes from.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the next number what it's doing it says Okay, I have 600 784 neurons going into 10 so that means I have 7840 weights wait a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: This is 700 and 8050 or the extra 10 come from they came from this, these are the bias terms that are associated with every preceptor on so not only do you have weights on the.
Capstone Coach 1: channels of information that are connecting one layer to another, you also have a way to special way the intercept or the bias wait that's on or associated with each one of these precepts total 623,290 weights with that number of weights, we should get a pretty good fit right.
Capstone Coach 1: In a rare regression model you'd probably have 784 coefficients maybe not much more.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so now we're ready to set up the conditions that we're going to use for running the model, this is done by the compile statements so here opt that little guy.
Capstone Coach 1: defines what the optimizer is going to do, or how its configured, this is the delta optimizer and we're setting a learning rate there at 6.5.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what we're going to use I basically I experimented with this learning rate trying low values and high values, to see what works, the best what gave me the best fit and 6.5 was close to the best.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're going to go model compile which describes the type of network, we have the loss function is categorical cross entry entropy, which is a definition that hey we have a nominal target the optimizer is op T, which is added Delta.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the metrics that we want to return as it's running the fifth is accuracy and so accuracy will be part of the data stream that comes from the estimation process in the neural network so let's let's grab the OPS line and the compiler line right click run.
Capstone Coach 1: nothing happens right little bit all you're doing they're setting up the description of the further description of what the neural network looks like.
Capstone Coach 1: Now we get down to the number crunching part which is the fit part right here, you see history equal to model that fit this is going to kicked off.
Capstone Coach 1: A routine that's going to estimate those weights and so let's take everything from pixels all the way down to print runtime let's take that whole thing right there and let's go right click and run on that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Now it's just it's going to kick off here in just a second there it goes so you'll see you'll watch rather the the verbose the verbose option was set to to.
Capstone Coach 1: If you set this to zero you wouldn't see any output at all, but because we said to you're getting this condensed version of the output and you can see, is showing you the epoch number seven out of 20 here.
Capstone Coach 1: The length of time that it took to run that he bought four seconds, it seems, on most of them.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the last function for the training data, the accuracy for the training data.
Capstone Coach 1: The data loss function for the validation data, and then the accuracy for the validation.
Capstone Coach 1: One word here the loss is not the the misclassification rate the losses, the Cross entropy.
Capstone Coach 1: categorical cross entropy calculation, which is a function of the estimated probabilities not the number of miss classifications, and so.
Capstone Coach 1: You you sometimes it may not see that obvious now when I when the last goes to zero and notice the accuracy goes to one.
Capstone Coach 1: that's an indication that Oh, there is no, there are no miss classifications in this area there's plot let's take scroll back and see the graphs so the blue line is the validation number and the red line is the.
Capstone Coach 1: Training data.
Capstone Coach 1: The train data behave so last goes going to zero here and the accuracy going to one on the bottom graph.
Capstone Coach 1: divination that's being stubborn it doesn't go to one on the almost zero on loss and it doesn't go to one on the accuracy, so there.
Capstone Coach 1: may be claims here that we have some overfitting let's take a look at the confusion matrix here.
Capstone Coach 1: And the confusion matrix for the training data no miss classifications it's all zeros except for the diagonal.
Capstone Coach 1: Now validation data well it's not bad really the misclassification rate here is 1.4 or 5% 145 out of 10,000 that's what it now, this is what i'm getting the you may get something different, because you're on a different computer probably different type of computer and.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, when I set that random seed on my computer, it may be set to a slightly differently than it is on your machine, and this is something i've actually kind of curious about did anybody get a.
Capstone Coach 1: 140 5.49 you got what no.
Swanson J, Charles: 1.49 I got one point.
Swanson J, Charles: or one or eight.
Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what I thought it close but not exact so now, if you were to run this again on your computer, you should get the same number 1.48 1.49 whatever it is.
Capstone Coach 1: You should get the same number now the reason we're not getting between machines, the same number is because you have a different processor your cpu is different and you're on windows.
Capstone Coach 1: So are not I don't know that necessarily are, but your operating system, and then the actual computer hardware you're using will change the red and blue sequence that you're getting and so your numbers will be close but not exactly the same right.
Fireman, Karen: You know Jones yeah.
Fireman, Karen: different numbers, when I ran it twice.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, really.
Fireman, Karen: yeah 148 141.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well that's curious, if you would please make sure well, let me see here yeah you see the statement number 252 yes, possibly, that was not run the with the issue, running from scratch.
Fireman, Karen: I mean.
Fireman, Karen: Originally, I did.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah this know this, should this should make things.
Capstone Coach 1: compatible, you know I mean repeatable So if you say let's let's change let's change this thing that says model, one faults up there let's make that true like this.
Capstone Coach 1: And, and then we will clear the Colonel so we're going up here to console restart Colonel like that, yes, please clear it.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're going to run it and see what number, we should get a number, which is the same if we were to restart and so forth, so i'm going to click click go.
Capstone Coach 1: And now it's starting with reading the data again so and pre processing the data this takes a minute or 30 seconds, or something like that it's fairly quick.
Capstone Coach 1: But Karen yeah if you do this if you if you make sure that that random set seed is executed and you I was fair my current like I don't think you should get the same number every time.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're not getting the same number number time that's curious it's not a disaster or anything like that it doesn't mean you did anything wrong, it just means your computer is a little different.
Swanson J, Charles: But.
Fireman, Karen: It probably is.
Capstone Coach 1: And I I don't I would hate to see what is that is that a an analytics computer or your home computer.
Fireman, Karen: It is, but I think actually we avoided that section that you're making a good point so we didn't set the scene, maybe when we ran it together just now so maybe that's why it came different.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, it could be.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah it'd be.
Capstone Coach 1: Definitely could be that if you don't set the seed you'll get different.
Capstone Coach 1: Results every time and that's Okay, but anyway so it's cranking away four seconds times 20 is 180 seconds that's about two and a half, but it's I guess like that.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, I did get the 148 that I got original.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, now, while this is running i'd like you to open up a if you go back to.
Capstone Coach 1: This guy the week 11 and a if download for me the F of excel file, it says nlp comparison so i'd like to show you some numbers that I collected.
Capstone Coach 1: I ran several different configurations on this code and you'll sheet your see some interesting things I think they're so we'll open that up while we're running this off.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, here we go we're at number 17.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: You see, the accuracy turned to one at about.
Capstone Coach 1: 13 or 14.
Capstone Coach 1: pretty good.
Capstone Coach 1: pretty good action on the train data could be better on validation so.
Capstone Coach 1: What.
Capstone Coach 1: There you go alright so yeah I got 145 1.4 or five again, so I got the same results.
Capstone Coach 1: And kind of boring, as usual, all right.
Capstone Coach 1: But so let's take a look at that excel spreadsheet i'd like to describe what's the talk about what's in there for a minute, here we go turned it on.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: whoops not so fast.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so this is, I did a series of runs with this code and what I did was I changed the code little bit right now we just have.
Capstone Coach 1: A two layers we have the first layer layer number one set to 784% trans and then we have layer number two of the output layer which here is to noted, as layer five set to 10% trots.
Capstone Coach 1: Then I did some experimenting with different other layers in between the two, you can see what happens to the number of weights.
Capstone Coach 1: That they're the it's a large number of weights, but not overly impossible to work with and then this is the misclassification number for training and validation.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the training accuracy, the validation accuracy and then the difference between the two of them, so you can see the validation accuracy is about one and a half 1.4%.
Capstone Coach 1: off below the training accuracy, the accuracy for the training data which in most cases is 100% and then the time that it took to run that configuration and the spirits, all the way from a little less than a minute to about five minutes in one case.
Capstone Coach 1: All right, let's talk about these three layers that well the configuration that we are just running right now that was 20 epochs wait a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: where's the there, it is the that size.
Capstone Coach 1: Is the, why should move it around don't do that, so this is the number of the box on the left and then the second column is the batch size now in the code, we have 28 bucks in a batch size of 128 and let's see if I can find that here.
Capstone Coach 1: looks like.
Capstone Coach 1: should be that one, yes it is see the, the number of validation and this classifications is 145.
Capstone Coach 1: So it's line number 10 and spreadsheet is is what i'm.
Capstone Coach 1: What we're seeing right now on the screen.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what and what i'm doing here is i'm experimenting with changing the number of epochs changing the BAT size.
Capstone Coach 1: And also can.
Capstone Coach 1: expect experimenting with regularization there are two forms of regularization that are available.
Capstone Coach 1: One is called the traditional regularization l one and two, and you can see, I prefer to use last so, which is the one you could use to you, could you could configure your network to do that you wanted to.
Capstone Coach 1: And then I also experimented with adding a another hidden layer in between the the first one, which is very large 794 nodes with a layer in between.
Capstone Coach 1: That and the the final layer over here the D is a different form of regularization it's called drop out and you put this into your network, what happens is.
Capstone Coach 1: The algorithm the optimization algorithm will go through and look for weights that are very low, and it will get rid of them.
Capstone Coach 1: So it drops, the requirement to have a dense array and goes to looking for connections that don't seem to matter and killing them and reducing them now what percentage is reduced you control that in this case I said point four or 540 5% kill off 45% of the weights from one.
Capstone Coach 1: You know Level one layer to the next kill off 45% of the weights, this is another form of regularization and in the least in tensorflow and charisse.
Capstone Coach 1: Is what they're doing is they're saying the weights can be extreme very large very small, and we want to identify those extremes and get rid of them.
Capstone Coach 1: regularization this at all this l one will do that somewhat automatically and the algorithm but dropouts does it manually head dummy by force.
Capstone Coach 1: It you're either allowed in, or you're thrown out and 45% are going to be thrown out I could have chosen something smaller maybe 10% or 20%.
Capstone Coach 1: But this is this seemed like a starting good starting place so let's take a look at what what happened here, first of all.
Capstone Coach 1: If you run up the number of the box you'll see, most of them were done at 20 but then I have one in 52 and 50 and 100 and so forth, did I get results that are any better or smaller well let's take a look at that let's compare the blue line here, where I have a box of 50.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll see in the blue line i'm the on using.
Capstone Coach 1: l one regularization and the in the line just above it I have 28 box, also with the bed size of everything is the same.
Capstone Coach 1: And the same number precept ron's this same regularization the same number of weights, the same everything is same.
Capstone Coach 1: The only thing that's different is the number of the boxes increased and look what happened to the misclassification for the validation data it decreased.
Capstone Coach 1: goes from 141 to 125 is that a meaningful number i'm not so sure it's in terms of accuracy we're talking about going from 98.6 to 98.8.
Capstone Coach 1: it's still in both cases says you, you may have an overfitting problem here, because the training data accuracy is 100% and you're not able to achieve that with the validation data you're about 1.3% 1.4% less accuracy without than in the validation data so.
Capstone Coach 1: that's what happens when you increase the number of the box so ordinarily what I do is I experiment around using those small number of the box like 20.
Capstone Coach 1: or 10 even and then I try I try to get things to sort of optimum with respect to the number of preceptor ons and also regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: And then i'll jack up the number of the box good when I do that let's see what how long it took to run these two okay 2.9 minutes for 50 bucks and, as you might expect, one point for about half.
Capstone Coach 1: For 20 so that's why you don't just jump out at the sale that's 1008 bucks nope nope no start with something less.
Capstone Coach 1: get it to work well and then ratchet up the number of the box, otherwise you will be spending forever trying to get this thing done.
Capstone Coach 1: notice, I did run make a run here with 100 a box and, as a matter of fact that we're online here, and the one 100 is exactly like the number with the let's see what happened.
Capstone Coach 1: Look at this by going to 100 ad packs the number of misclassification skills gets worse for the validation data goes from 125 to 135.
Capstone Coach 1: Of course, the accuracy decreases and, of course, the runtime as almost five minutes and 100 epochs so when you increase the number of the box it doesn't necessarily get better and if it does get better it may only just slightly get better.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's look at what happened when we jacked up the number of perceptions in that first hidden layer going from 784 to.
Capstone Coach 1: 1024 was there any benefit to that will take a look at these run number four and number five in the spreadsheet these are identical, except for the size of that first layer did we look at the number of graduates, first of all.
Capstone Coach 1: 1.3 million versus 1 million, and then, if we go over to the right, you can see, there is a big somewhat difference in the runtime.
Capstone Coach 1: The misclassification is to 71 versus 280.
Capstone Coach 1: And for the training data and then 182 verses 178 for validation data, so the training accuracy is about the same.
Capstone Coach 1: With or without the regularization and the validation accuracy is almost the same with or without regularization so that being the battle i'm sorry, by increasing the number of perceptions there didn't really give us much of a benefit just took more time.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's why, and this is what I expected to see if you increase the number of perceptions and that, personally, or to go above the number of inputs, you probably going to be.
Capstone Coach 1: Running longer, but not getting any better results it's not going to get worse, but my not much better at all so that's why I just stuck with 187 84 all the way through.
Capstone Coach 1: I should have tried going a little somewhat lower than this, I didn't do that.
Capstone Coach 1: it's better to go lower if you expect lots of multi linearity in the data now with respect to photographs.
Capstone Coach 1: It depends on the photograph right for the what we're looking at digits on numbers black and white, you probably don't expect to see a lot of multicolor in the area and let's the the you know between rose between the the between the roast in the photograph right so.
Capstone Coach 1: I wouldn't worry so much about that here, but there would be other cases and facial recognition, where you might have some problems with that.
Capstone Coach 1: Now let's take a look at this regularization thing and i'll show you how this is done in the code, if you go to the code.
Capstone Coach 1: over here which we've been working on now we're going back here to line number 249 and you can see the layer i'm going to put a layer in between this and.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, let me make sure that I have the right import statements.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm gonna cheat and go down to down down.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay model to.
Capstone Coach 1: Up better yet let's just go down the model to and take a look at that now so up here, where it says model to false.
Capstone Coach 1: You can leave that as false, we can run this one, at a time, so to speak, but you'll see there are some lines that are commented out line number three oh to remove the comment.
Capstone Coach 1: And you see it says layer one a equal to.
Capstone Coach 1: drop out.
Capstone Coach 1: So what this says, is it, I want you to inspect the weights between layer one and layer two and remove any that are inconsequential.
Capstone Coach 1: they're not adding to the forecast so that's the dropout regularization that how you implement the dropout rate there's another one down here that is going to go between the second layer and the output layer see that.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's one way to do regularization, this is the dropout way of doing regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you over here you'll see it says, Colonel regular riser.
Capstone Coach 1: Regular risers dot l one that that whole thing is setting up l one regularization for the first layer
Capstone Coach 1: And then you can do the same thing for any other layer I don't do it with the output layer and I don't do that no.
Capstone Coach 1: But with respect to the other layers where you're just estimating the weights of these preceptor ons you can do the regularization by adding regular risers dot l one or two.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the learning rate here are the penalty one E minus six now, the larger the penalty, the more boring things get because this.
Capstone Coach 1: If you put a large penalty in here then it's gonna it's going to throw off quite a few weights.
Capstone Coach 1: You say 45%, but it may decide to throw off more than that, if you use this penalty is actually changes i'm sorry the dropout rate is shown up here dropout equal 2.45, and so the the dropout is going to remove 45% of the weights between.
Capstone Coach 1: Between these layers.
Capstone Coach 1: going from one layer to the next 45% of the connections will be dropped now if you use regularization l one up here, there are no weights are dropped.
Capstone Coach 1: The weights themselves are modified, they are suppress their they are kept from becoming too large, because the penalty then becomes increasingly increases as the the size of the weight.
Capstone Coach 1: increases, this is an absolute value, by the way, so if the penalty function here is large large being like point one.
Capstone Coach 1: Then it's going to dampen or severely affect the freedom to set those weights to high values and low values so ordinarily.
Capstone Coach 1: If i'm doing one here I would set this to have value, where I see no effect and then go and change it ratchet it down a little bit so let's turn off the drop well we'll leave that we've already got the dropout turned on.
Capstone Coach 1: let's turn it off again let's.
Capstone Coach 1: just turn off layer one and turn off layer two like that, so we have no dropout going on now, we just have l one regularization.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see Okay, so this is this network has 784% drones on the first layer hidden layer 256 in the second hidden layer and then of course it has the output layer with the same kind of thing soft Max X activation and things like that now.
Capstone Coach 1: We are not going to add layer number two, we are only going to add layer number one and the output layers so that means that the second layer will be ignored it's just going to fit.
Capstone Coach 1: 784% tron So the first layer and then the output layer layer here, I could remove these comments and activate this part right.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, then everything else.
Capstone Coach 1: looks correct.
Capstone Coach 1: And oh here's what I want to change the box and size let's make this so that we can we don't we're not here all night long.
Capstone Coach 1: let's change this 10 to 2028 box and let's go ahead and leave 256 because that's, the higher the number, the faster it's going to run right so we'll leave that and now let's select everything from start time to stop time which is down here somewhere.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, there we go stop time right there so we're going to go into say select that guy and then click run selection.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm here we go.
Capstone Coach 1: First, you can see the network it's set up with 620 3000 weights, we have one hidden layer at 784 and then we have 10 you know, in the output layer you see it's running fairly quick here.
Capstone Coach 1: This is running with l one regularization you can't see any difference in the output, the only difference you're going to see is in the final.
Capstone Coach 1: Miss misclassification rate will be a little different if you're using regularization it may go up and may go down, depending upon how what that number is i've set it to.
Capstone Coach 1: 10 to the minus 618 minus six.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's five zeros on one.
Capstone Coach 1: And here we go we're converging quickly on epoch 20.
Capstone Coach 1: and see what happens here.
Capstone Coach 1: Coming up.
Capstone Coach 1: Here we go so perfect accuracy on the training data and 1.44% on the.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, on the validation data 144 misclassification is not bad.
Capstone Coach 1: not bad at all now let's go in and change the one let's instead of going minus six let's go minus 12.
Capstone Coach 1: Double it.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, what would you think's going to happen now that we increase the we actually decreasing the learning rate the penalty here, what do you think's going to happen.
Capstone Coach 1: Anybody.
Swanson J, Charles: we're gonna overfit the data even more.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, most I don't know but The thing is, is that what you get is no change from not doing regularization if you make this smaller really small, then the number should get out are going to be the same as if you did know regularization at all.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if I were to run this i'm going to get I make it the number of it's a little different and what i'm going to do, then, is, I will set those base conditions on the base, maybe, maybe it's 100 and I don't know what but in a run oops started from the very top forget it.
Capstone Coach 1: So the point, the point that i'm trying to make here is that, how do you set the regularization start with a really small number and then ratchet it down until you start to see some changes in the output.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's where you probably want to leave it the other way to go, is to start with some.
Capstone Coach 1: Big numbers, the question is what's big that depends on the data depends on how many weights, you have all sorts of things so it's way easier to start with a small number and then make it entertaining gradually increase it see what what happens versus going to going the other way around.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, instead of using that one you could just use the drop out let's.
Capstone Coach 1: Well i'm not going to do that now because i've messed up the MIC machine, but you can experiment with this yourself and and get a feel for for these days, anyway, what what's going on with my data, so I changed the regularization okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Any questions.
Capstone Coach 1: alrighty.
Capstone Coach 1: As usual, please feel free to ask questions I don't see the chat.
Capstone Coach 1: Very well.
Capstone Coach 1: And you're willing to interrupt my conversation here now let's go to the other set of code which you can download, this is the sea and encode, and so this is labeled curious digits CNN dot P y.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is the one that's going to be new really new to us, we haven't seen this before let's open this up in in spider.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm going to clear off the right hand side by clear in the kernel.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to be using the same data but different network all together.
Capstone Coach 1: So we'll.
Capstone Coach 1: See make this a little bit larger to make it more visible cash should do it hope you can see that fine let's take a look at the inputs you're going to see some new ones in here and some old ones for SK learn there's no change and.
Capstone Coach 1: The others up here, no change but i've added a few down here, look at this charisse layers co envy 2d.
Capstone Coach 1: Max pooling today and flatten there are a few others that we could put in here, but these are the ones that are most commonly used with images.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the convolution filter the Max pooling filter and flattened which basically takes a three dimensional nubby array and puts it into one dimension, so the calculations go faster.
Capstone Coach 1: And, of course, to categorical we have that there are the others we've seen before, when we did the last one, there is a big function in the just like we had any other one and then so let's scroll down to.
Capstone Coach 1: right here line number 167.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, you should see right here line 60 so we that's familiar right we had that's how we read the data and then we get the number of classes, by using nothing function unique.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we get the image size, which is looking at the the X ti value there so let's copy or rather select those first three lines 167 6869 right click and run.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: him in is T not defined.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, I need to run all the I did this last time Tutoring that i'm kidding see now okay so.
Capstone Coach 1: run these please before we go too far okay.
Capstone Coach 1: And yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Here we go now let's go down and take a look at our data again.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to run our data, right here our classes and then our image size and so let's run that there we go very quick.
Capstone Coach 1: So what is the image size hmm let me see image size.
Capstone Coach 1: 28 OK, so the size here is just the width of the photograph or the height fortunately here the width and the height of the same, otherwise you would be carrying around two numbers, not just image size but you'd have width and height.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we go and we're going through the reshaped thing again because, if I look at X ti dot shape sure enough it's.
Capstone Coach 1: And when I reshape it which we're going to do right now.
Capstone Coach 1: copy the line 70 and 71 and just run those and now I go X T whoops.
Capstone Coach 1: shape.
Capstone Coach 1: You see it's four dimensions Oh, what happened there wow what of it.
Capstone Coach 1: So what was wrong with 6028 and 28 now we got 60,028 28 and one.
Capstone Coach 1: that's because the compilation filters are designed to work with both black and white and color.
Capstone Coach 1: And normally if you're if you're working with color this last digit would be three three channels three layer each color photograph is really three pictures three layers of photos.
Capstone Coach 1: Green red blue and by with black and white it's so one thing if this is a three things slow down, basically, but the the code is the same, by the way.
Capstone Coach 1: So if these somehow we got cut off photographs in here, so the black and white, this would have come out three and the code was still be the same, the reshape and everything.
Capstone Coach 1: So, then you you go and look at what's going on here and 172 and 173.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm basically dividing every number in the photograph by 255.
Capstone Coach 1: So that normalizes all of those numbers it changes them.
Capstone Coach 1: Instead of being eight bit editors it's now flooding point because it's so number between zero and one, so we really scaled the pixel information, instead of and independent digits I mean numeric integers we have a floating Point number why.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, because the neural network likes it to have scaled numbers like this floating point numbers because everything that's done in the tensorflow calculation is floating point arithmetic.
Capstone Coach 1: And so, if we send them a bunch of integers as the data, then tensorflow is going to have to convert it to floating point every time it gets oh more managers are floating point, and so there it slows things down this is going to speed things up.
Capstone Coach 1: With tensorflow by converting them the 255 that's helpful but what's really helpful is just convert them all the floating point.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, this is courses generating the next two lines generate the.
Capstone Coach 1: One hot encoding so i'm going to select those and run those as well that was quick and now we get into running our.
Capstone Coach 1: Our network let's take a look at what we have, first of all it's going to look familiar sort of check this out all right there is this setting the random number seat oh yeah I remember that model equal the model of start sequential mm hmm oh what's this what happened, the layers.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well we're going to add a convolution to the layer it says, and then we're going to add a Max pooling to D layer and then another convolution layer, my goodness, and then we're going to let add layer called flatten.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're going to do some regularization drop out.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, and then here's the output layer now the output layer it looks like what we did before right.
Capstone Coach 1: It says oh I got 10% runs in here the regularization is none yeah don't regularize the output and activation soft Max Of course this is nominal target, we have to do soft box.
Capstone Coach 1: And this is called, so this is exactly the same thing that we had in the previous network, everything else is different, everything is different.
Capstone Coach 1: So I wonder how this what's happening here well the conclusion to to the filter is a mathematical procedure or for smoothing an image and getting rid of the edge.
Capstone Coach 1: And how much of the edge you get rid of, and how much smoothing this done depends upon the, the number of filters this guy right here, Colonel size.
Capstone Coach 1: Colonel size, so what is Colonel SUP it's three see up here, it says, I set the size, two, three, I could have said it, the four or five or even heart higher.
Capstone Coach 1: But what this defines is a matrix in this case, it would be a three by three matrix it's like a.
Capstone Coach 1: You can think of it like a almost like a magnifying glass you put this down over the photograph and it picks up nine pixels three by three pixels right.
Capstone Coach 1: And then it's going to smooth out the numbers that are in those pixels to get rid of the noise it's in the photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: And it but it'll it won't process the edge so we're going to we're going to lose two pixels all the way around the edge.
Capstone Coach 1: So if the image comes in, as 28 by 28th it's going to leave as 26 by 26 so you've done some small reduction there.
Capstone Coach 1: But, more importantly, the new version of that photograph is going to be smooth it's going to be different and you'll see if you were to look at this, which we can then you would see that the their lines that are in the photograph or more distinct or more sharp.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we go to Max pooling Oh, this is the one I really like because notice this two dimensional and there's something there called pooled size how big is this.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, the pool sizes, too, so this is another filter it's a two by two filter and what it does, is it looks at the four filters and the four pixels that are defined by that two by two array.
Capstone Coach 1: And it uses the Max value and that becomes the new pixel and drops the other three so this guy is going to reduce the number of pixels in the photograph we're working on by two so we're going to go from 28 to 26 with the convolution and then the pooling thing we're going to go from.
Capstone Coach 1: To.
Capstone Coach 1: chopping out and half when we do the pooling.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're going to redo the convolution on this new photograph that we just created and when we get through it, that we're going to flatten it back down to an empty array.
Capstone Coach 1: and send it send it into these 10 10% prawns and the output side and it's going to give us our information so.
Capstone Coach 1: So let's do this.
Capstone Coach 1: we're going to run this see let's say we have 10 in a box and 128 size that's Okay, this is slower, by the way.
Capstone Coach 1: This business of convolution takes a little more time than just ordinary the ordinary because it's extra gotta go and check multiple pixels and do calculations and get you know get things in order.
Capstone Coach 1: So let's take everything from the runtime up to right here it's a start time we're going to take all of that.
Capstone Coach 1: And I think we've run everything above that, so we should be good here let's just right click run.
Capstone Coach 1: And there it goes okay X train is not defined.
Capstone Coach 1: I guess we didn't run I didn't run that part up there, so anyway.
Capstone Coach 1: let's Let me run that part of their first the sky, right here just to make sure right click run phone okay now.
Capstone Coach 1: All of this.
Capstone Coach 1: Right click and run.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, now I guess all right, first of all take a look at the table, what we see here it's more complex than what we're doing with the nlp network.
Capstone Coach 1: We have one convolution layer and what's coming into the completion layer 20 oh no i'm sorry what's coming out of the layer is 26 by 26 remember I said you're going to drop.
Capstone Coach 1: The images or 28 by 28 and it's going to drop two pixels from that image, these are the your edge the edge, because this three by three.
Capstone Coach 1: filter that's being used it can't be placed over the edge the top two pistols because part of the filter be laying will be off the photograph so it starts with the you know the the second row down and says set of the first room.
Capstone Coach 1: Actually zero in the first.
started throwing number two.
Capstone Coach 1: Then.
Capstone Coach 1: So this says this requires 640 parameters or weights these weights or the weights that are being used by the.
Capstone Coach 1: filter itself the convolution filter and so these are being estimated to optimize the the identification, in this case the nominal identification, then.
Capstone Coach 1: It goes to Max pooling and the photograph know drops down to 13 by 13 so we're going from 2828 to 2626 to 13 by 13.
Capstone Coach 1: And then these 13 this this little picture is only 13 by 13 right, so it goes into the next convolution and we're going to lose some more pixels around that so we lose two pixels around 13 we end up with a little picture 11 by 11.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we flat my thing out Oh, and we flatten it out, we have 707,744, and that is then becomes our tense or, if you want and.
Capstone Coach 1: We drop some of those weights here drop out and then that go they all go into the 10 outputs you notice that the number of weights in the outputs is 77450.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's basically 10 times 774 plus another 10 for the bias terms that go in these in these weights here now, this is kind of typical of what you'd see in the photograph you have a lot of pre processing that's going on using convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: And also pooling and then finally flatten and then into the last now oftentimes after this flattened part right here.
Capstone Coach 1: you'll have another hidden layer multiple hidden layers in this area that help you then improve the forecasts that you're going to get here.
Capstone Coach 1: So it's going to be interesting to see, we have no hidden layers we're basically taking the photographs as input we are filtering them through convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the smaller version of those photographs, which is on which are only 11 by 11 by the time they get down through here.
Capstone Coach 1: That goes into the output layer precept ron's and their weights are us, then, to make the forecast of which digit this belongs to, here we are we've got we're epoch number seven.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's why I made sure that we didn't have it set to something like 100 which is okay if you're going to get coffee or something like that, but you can see each epoch here is taking about 3637 seconds.
Capstone Coach 1: So 1010 a box is going to be about 380 400 seconds divided by 60 that's a few minutes.
Capstone Coach 1: Alright how's it doing well let's see the losses point of to good good oh look at this the validation loss and the target loss or about the same that's good and then the accuracy on the training data and the accuracy on the validation data are very close.
Capstone Coach 1: So this is from that respect it looks better than the nlp solution.
Capstone Coach 1: will see in the final numbers in just a minute how this works out now if we were to run more epochs and I probably would have probably jack it up at least a 20 in the final solution, then you would see maybe these numbers, which would be better or worse, but most likely they'll get better.
Capstone Coach 1: Now I was, I was thinking about signing some.
Capstone Coach 1: Some homework for this situation, and what I was going to just have you do is run some scenarios and report your what you ran from this from running this code is.
Capstone Coach 1: If you change the if you added regularization, for example, does the fifth improve the misclassification rate, this improve if you right here we're using.
Capstone Coach 1: Two levels of convolution if I were to drop out that second level and just use a single level of convolution How does that affect the the the fit to get better get worse that kind of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: So I wanted I wanted somebody's opinion about that about whether we should have some.
Capstone Coach 1: Some homework along those lines, we can rack up a few more points or not.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Alright, so I have a problem in the code charisse accuracy Oh yes, I forgot to run that part of the code, yes, of course.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: What we'll do here what I can do is go to the top, where it says.
Capstone Coach 1: function Kara cx accuracy plots let's basically whoops.
Capstone Coach 1: copy not copy but select all of that and run it.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go.
Capstone Coach 1: That run, nothing will happen, but you're basically running that function to defining what the function is now let's go back down here, where it was calling that function so.
Capstone Coach 1: That would be right here, it says charisse accuracy plots this should work now so i'm going to copy that and right click and run that.
Capstone Coach 1: And there we go, so this shows this what how successful or unsuccessful, we are.
Capstone Coach 1: Very different picture than when we were getting within LP notice that the validation accuracy is better than the training, so no i'm sorry yeah it is no no.
Capstone Coach 1: No it's 95 out of 10,000 is point nine five is the misclassification rate and here is point 367 so the training is still better it's still a better fit up here.
Capstone Coach 1: But there, these are not as different from one another as they were with em LP now the training accuracy of there was zero.
Capstone Coach 1: And, and here it was it was something worse than this, it was like 145 or 150 over 10,000 like 1.5 or 1.4%.
Capstone Coach 1: misclassification here we've got it below 1% so I actually feel like this is a better fit because the last the decrease in terms of the number of.
Capstone Coach 1: Of overfit them, you know overfitting the difference between these two as less and also the validation numbers come down a little bit, so I think that's a good thing, but we might be able to do better by changing the design of the network, the one thing.
Capstone Coach 1: And that would mainly be a question of whether another layer of convolution would help or whether with we removed one layer of convolution and maybe replaced it with a hidden layer for subtracts maybe that would even do better.
Capstone Coach 1: So there are many, many options here that you could explore to try to improve this fit the filter size, the kid the Colonel sighs I probably would leave that alone, because these are small images 28 by 28 and when you took off two rows of pixels that's the edge.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's different than if we have that 200 by 200 photograph your with 200 by 200 you don't miss those pixels for 2028 well.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so.
Fireman, Karen: question the question, yes Karen.
Fireman, Karen: i'm in your first couple additional layer on.
Fireman, Karen: You have the variable input shape it wasn't good shape, whereas on the second later layer you don't mention that 193.
Capstone Coach 1: Right, you know that's that's a good observation, you see, on this one right here you have input shape is equal to input shape, which is things 28.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you know i'm sorry input shape is 28 is a tubal three numbers 2828 one.
Capstone Coach 1: So for the photograph that's what they mean by shape, I mean to go with the height the width the hype, and the number of channels that last number one.
Capstone Coach 1: So yes, it says what is the input shape here, you always it's good practice to do that on the first layer
Capstone Coach 1: Is this is actually a neural network layer the ceiling V to be here it's actually a series of.
Capstone Coach 1: Book it's considered a layer it's treated as a layer, and so they want you to tell what to say what the shape of the incoming data is.
Capstone Coach 1: Just as a double check to make sure that there's no mismatch for the other layers that you have following they know what the shape is because they know the what the preceding later look like.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm so it's only it's only necessary to have the input size on that, on the first layer if you looked at the the previous code you'll see here, it says input dimensions equals in features.
Capstone Coach 1: That only is only necessary.
Capstone Coach 1: On the first layer if it's put on the second layer as it is here that's a boo boo not needed.
Capstone Coach 1: Take it out just realize it was not a good at the, I guess, they just ignored it but.
Capstone Coach 1: You know practice you supposed to just put that on the first video.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, good question.
Capstone Coach 1: let's go back here so that's.
Capstone Coach 1: I have two versions, I have you can see one here, it says model, one and one here model tune.
Capstone Coach 1: What I normally do is I don't touch model to this is sort of like a backup in case something's not working, I can reef.
Capstone Coach 1: restored whatever I did up here on the top.
Right.
Capstone Coach 1: But what i'd like you to do now is to make some changes here and let's run it together and that'll, be it for tonight, but what i'd like you to do is let's take out the second convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: and see what happens so that would be, you can see, the first convolution up here, and the second one So what did it take second one, I think this guy out right here.
Capstone Coach 1: Well what's going to take that.
Capstone Coach 1: would happen, you know that guy right.
Capstone Coach 1: And let's see do we need to do anything else well huh drop out I don't want.
Capstone Coach 1: To get rid of the drop out.
Capstone Coach 1: like that and flatten hmm I don't know that we need flatten.
Capstone Coach 1: This is.
Capstone Coach 1: let's let's see what happens if we comment.
Capstone Coach 1: because all that seems to be doing is changing the shape of the non P array.
Capstone Coach 1: And I wonder if the last hidden layer, the last layer the upper layers going to.
Capstone Coach 1: accommodate that or not see what happens so i'm going to go up here and restart the Colonel make sure this is a fair test restart yes.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Then what i'm going to do is i'm going to go up here, make sure it says true for model, one.
Capstone Coach 1: Make sure it says false for model to.
Capstone Coach 1: don't want to run that one not tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: And everything else well we'll just leave it in, so it is so we're good.
Capstone Coach 1: let's go ahead and click run and just start from the top it'll read the data, you know set up the columns and.
Capstone Coach 1: All that sort of business, but what.
Capstone Coach 1: Wait a minute.
Capstone Coach 1: This I haven't seen before I.
Fireman, Karen: Think it's incompatible.
Capstone Coach 1: what's that.
Fireman, Karen: line is said value error shapes are incompatible.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah let's see what says let's see what Oh, I see what's happening, you know that flattened we took out it's not too happy about that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, it was a test it was a test.
Capstone Coach 1: And so let's put it back in maybe maybe life will get better and so we'll take the console here restart the Colonel just pretend that you didn't see that.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah restart the car okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Just pretend we didn't do that all right hey it was a mistake, I hope that was not the only mistake we met all right now click OK run.
Jim Clark: So that's the guns with what lies that you take out.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, I had I had commented out this line number 193, which is the flat line.
Jim Clark: Yes, so is that really changed at all from where we started.
Capstone Coach 1: The problem, the problem, apparently, is that if you don't flatten all of the photographs coming out of the convolution and pulling process, then the network, then neural network layer, which is, in this case it's the last output layer doesn't know what to do with the numbers.
Capstone Coach 1: So if that's why we got these weird messages about this is not compatible with that different sizes.
Capstone Coach 1: Because we are required if we're going from convolution to regular network analysis, I guess, we have to flat, and we must flat.
Capstone Coach 1: To make that transition.
Capstone Coach 1: Get the data and order.
Capstone Coach 1: Now what that what you do see here is let's I don't know if this is a lot more of weights or not hmm.
Capstone Coach 1: 108,000 that's not bad, but in terms of the total number of weights.
Capstone Coach 1: In the other network nlp we were working with a million.
Capstone Coach 1: So wow okay well let's see what happens.
Capstone Coach 1: So far, what I like is the accuracy for the training data and the validation data are almost the same and the last is very similar as well, so of course that was slowly, we saw in the previous run things look pretty good in that respect as well, so let's see what happens.
Capstone Coach 1: it's running faster yeah yeah it's running faster, because we have fewer weights fewer layers.
Fireman, Karen: You know the first ad hoc is worse on the training than it is in the validation and it's true for mine as well.
Fireman, Karen: Just the.
Capstone Coach 1: word about.
Fireman, Karen: What about the very first epoch yeah.
Fireman, Karen: Your accuracy point 91 versus your nation accuracy is 96 and I had the same thing.
Capstone Coach 1: That has happened, you know.
Capstone Coach 1: This is just.
Capstone Coach 1: draw the luck, of the draw.
Capstone Coach 1: There you do see some weird things going on, oh look at this one that's in this is kind of.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah well, no.
Swanson J, Charles: I figured out dropping dropping accuracy here.
Capstone Coach 1: We did you mean with this this new version.
Capstone Coach 1: Correct yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: So our little experiment here wasn't too successful it ran faster, but the results, not so great.
Capstone Coach 1: You know so let's let's let's put that layer back.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay let's see.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, if I go down below.
Capstone Coach 1: And that's in the second model.
Capstone Coach 1: You should see there, it is the whole thing, so I wanted, I want to do this part right here, and I wanted to well you know what let's just copy the whole thing.
Capstone Coach 1: like that.
Capstone Coach 1: The recent reboot restart to where we were.
Capstone Coach 1: hilarious so yeah What about.
Capstone Coach 1: well.
Swanson J, Charles: I think you went too far.
Oh.
Capstone Coach 1: I went too far.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah yeah yeah I see that oh Oh, thank you very much, just seeing that Oh, my goodness, oh wow.
Capstone Coach 1: So that was a real that could have been a real disaster.
Capstone Coach 1: Alright, so I think this is okay, now we got 123 combinations.
Capstone Coach 1: The first one is followed by bullying the second one by pooling and the last one by flatten and we're words got the dropouts back, and we have the the the output layer there so, then the.
Fireman, Karen: Second, originally didn't have three convolutions I think he just had to.
Fireman, Karen: Do you got an extra convolution now get the third convolution on line 195 that you didn't.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, really.
Fireman, Karen: yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Well that's what I wanted to do anyway, I wanted.
Fireman, Karen: To add a third one.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yeah exactly.
Fireman, Karen: So you put that after flat.
Capstone Coach 1: No, no, before you see it says.
Fireman, Karen: I don't know what exactly your Max pool okay yeah so you got.
Capstone Coach 1: convert gone to the Max pool God TV Mexico can to be flapping.
Capstone Coach 1: So yeah we have three three convolutions now.
Capstone Coach 1: And to Max pools, and one final.
Capstone Coach 1: thing oh everything's there's good so.
Fireman, Karen: We still do drop out Johnson okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, why not well I don't like trump I don't like regularization here let's let's let's let's take it out.
Capstone Coach 1: For this from.
Capstone Coach 1: This commented uh yeah you see the dropout is 20 the dropout rate is 20% here.
Capstone Coach 1: Personally I think these particular photographs the regularization is not working very well.
Capstone Coach 1: But heck we'll try it all right let's run it and see.
Capstone Coach 1: see if we can get this to finish before it gets hit the stream that the pumpkin turns so.
Swanson J, Charles: Far we turn into pumpkins yeah.
Like.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, the total number of parameters is less 80,000.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah 80,000 verses was 103 in the last go hmm in that you know I always I always think that the more parameters, you have the better the fit should be but it looks like, in this case we're seeing some of the just maybe just the opposite.
Capstone Coach 1: But I think there was going on here is that Max pooling and the second, looking at the now we're looking at a three by three photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: And look at when we flattened we got 576 pixels So you can see what happened we go from 26 to 1311 to five to three, that is, this three by three photograph going to have sufficient information on it to.
Capstone Coach 1: To allow this distinguish between digits I think it could, because if you look at these numbers, there are characteristics reach digit which makes them quite different from one another right like the number one one vertical line.
Capstone Coach 1: 02 vertical line so it's going to look like two vertical lines right.
Capstone Coach 1: And eight distinguish them in an eight from the zero that might be a problem or six and eight from a six and that could be a problem yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: So here we're going going down the road and let's see what we have a level five and all 398 and 98 OK OK now.
Capstone Coach 1: It says.
Capstone Coach 1: what's what's sort of interesting here is, you have fewer parameters, but maybe it's running slower, or is it just me.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Swanson J, Charles: Now it seems to be running slower.
Capstone Coach 1: It does on my machine and it says 35 seconds 30, so I think it's line.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't think that's right because.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe it's because the clock is pointing upwards at a.
Capstone Coach 1: well.
Capstone Coach 1: So I when I was in Austin over the weekend, it was just the culture they're so different right, so you have you're driving around, and you have all these tents underneath the freeway.
Capstone Coach 1: They got a whole herd, and also have people living in tense now on city streets.
Capstone Coach 1: And I hadn't seen that before and other turnips awesome.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you.
Jim Clark: know not to not good cry that often but there's a lot of people living against below the underpasses in relation to.
Capstone Coach 1: Really, I say I haven't been in Houston for a while.
Capstone Coach 1: So it's the same thing there too.
Jim Clark: Yes, actually around background buying.
Capstone Coach 1: All that I could believe if I was if I was homeless I go to the by you hanging out down there that's Nice.
Capstone Coach 1: People drop food.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't know I actually had a friend who was the guy he was almost killed in the bike riding the bicycle.
Capstone Coach 1: At night, it was near dusk it wasn't really night yep and he was he was a very good bicyclist.
Capstone Coach 1: He was must have been doing 20 at least 20 miles an hour and somebody threw a water balloon at him.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, it turns out that a water balloon if you hit an option let's move in 20 miles an hour, the water balloon it's like a brick.
Capstone Coach 1: So he almost lost his eyes ended up in the hospital for several weeks.
Capstone Coach 1: didn't think about that about the they actually dropped a.
Capstone Coach 1: balloon from top of the bridge somewhere something like.
Capstone Coach 1: That it was harmless.
Capstone Coach 1: So, here it goes heat TIM.
Jim Clark: My machine here running about 17 seconds where we're every step or two but but twice the speed twice the time.
Capstone Coach 1: Really, how it what machine, are you using.
Jim Clark: The computer laptop here, I see.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah Well, this is, this is my.
Capstone Coach 1: MAC pro which has been a fine machine for me, usually I have to get rid of these scenes after about four years this guy's been around for a while okay.
Capstone Coach 1: epoch number nine.
Capstone Coach 1: Of course, your numbers may be different.
Capstone Coach 1: A lot different.
Fireman, Karen: It was much slower five minutes versus 3.7.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll see here.
Fireman, Karen: 50% more.
Capstone Coach 1: So what do you think about should we have a homework problem this week and basically to do more, what we're doing right now.
Capstone Coach 1: Or whether we're calling it.
Coleman, Clay: optional extra credit yeah some there's worse about halfway through I mean I stopped to present and I know.
Capstone Coach 1: I know I know.
Capstone Coach 1: that's why i'm that's why i'm raising the question some of your done, I know.
Capstone Coach 1: Some of you done an outstanding, I know, but some of us to work on your problems so.
Capstone Coach 1: i'll make it i'll give it an optional optional optional homework thing you have time fine.
Swanson J, Charles: it's really Thank you.
Coleman, Clay: Now that appreciate it.
Capstone Coach 1: But in this particular case, all you're going to be doing sort of what we're doing here, change the code, a little bit and run it to you know evaluate what's what conditions So here we get whoo whoo I like.
Capstone Coach 1: amazing.
Swanson J, Charles: what's up that's amazing that this classification reduction in the validation set yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah well in both the other, the other one is almost it's close to zero, but yeah so, and this, this would say you have less funding overfitting, I think, but I think, with some more tweaking you might get this down to a perfect fit.
Capstone Coach 1: With a little bit more tweaking and maybe some extra runtime might be able to get this down to 100% accuracy i've got it i've got another train, you said that data set that we're going to look at next time, which is the X Ray data which is.
Capstone Coach 1: Basically, looking to buy pneumonia.
Capstone Coach 1: Not pneumonia.
Swanson J, Charles: Oh that's cool.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, this is a huge data set.
Capstone Coach 1: much bigger than 28 by 28.
Capstone Coach 1: But the the configurations are the same thing you you basically set up the convolution and then you have a neural network underneath that that fits the information you get from the convolution.
Capstone Coach 1: The basic idea here is to take the original image which has a huge amount of information and boil that down into the essence of what you need to make this choice and then.
Capstone Coach 1: put that into a neural network, but then trains train the neural network to use that information to make the choice and it I got that one to work perfect 00 this classification.
Capstone Coach 1: But it was some tweaking doing on on the combinations so we'll do that and for now that's it for tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: Thanks for staying with me and good luck with your capstones as of you that are on the way to do that, and I think I have a few that i'm going to be visiting here this week and looking forward to seeing the progress so we'll see.
Capstone Coach 1: Anyway, y'all be safe, get the vaccine, if you haven't already got it and you know.
Capstone Coach 1: enjoy life as much as you can right.
Amanda Pham: Dr Jones I had a quick question um did you want us to use the CNN template or the other one that we did the nlp.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, I think you know what I would probably do is is.
Capstone Coach 1: I will, I will mess, with the CNN one, what do you think.
Capstone Coach 1: You think you will be helpful to play with the other template as well.
Swanson J, Charles: All right.
Zuberi, Bilal: Because we can do CNN because I think.
Zuberi, Bilal: The last summer we did nlp so it will be good to get different experience.
Swanson J, Charles: yeah and then also the CNN seems to have a lower misclassification rate.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yes, yes and that's that's to be expected convolution is sort of like with you're going to do photographic recognition you're going to use combination.
Capstone Coach 1: it's just it's a filtering process that gets rid of all the slick glossy stuff that's in the picture and just shows you the main lines and structure that are in that, and then you use that to in a network to do your notification so yeah well, let me think about that and i'll post the.
Capstone Coach 1: Written the homework optional homework tomorrow i'm anjana.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Swanson J, Charles: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: Thank you so much i'm almost sad that this class is coming to a close, here we have, I think, four more weeks the.
Capstone Coach 1: Two of US weeks will be used basically in presenting your you know your project your class projects so, by the way, this could be a class project tweaking this to get a better solution and describing the solution and I will be fine.
Capstone Coach 1: Class project as well.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay we'll see you next week, then see you on Tuesday.
or.
Capstone Coach 1: Monday tomorrow we'll have a Q amp a tomorrow night i'm sorry.
Fireman, Karen: Yes.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah I forgot q&a tomorrow night.
Capstone Coach 1: bye now.
Zuberi, Bilal: Thank you present.